Usera, Daniel: awesome.
Usera, Daniel: So low Ms analytics great see you all again thanks for the.
Usera, Daniel: Nice chats so what we're going to do in this hour is just talk about data this now, I had the video lecture series, and hopefully you all watch those to give you, like the in depth explanation of things if you didn't have.
Usera, Daniel: That, if you didn't get a chance to watch it, I mean the good news is it's a synchronous you can watch it anytime you can watch it on double playback speed if you're short on time there's a lot of options there to.
Usera, Daniel: get caught up on that, but we'll we'll try to do like a brief review of everything, but it just won't be the same depth level.
Usera, Daniel: So, before I go into my material does anybody have any questions about anything that was presented and that's or any concerns at this time, but if not, we will.
Usera, Daniel: will have things to talk about so it's not a pure Q amp a period, but was there anything just that stuff that stood out to you right away.
Usera, Daniel: And just feel free to chime in just just speak you don't have to use the chat if you don't want to, but was there anything that stood out to you right away that you wanted to ask about or say.
Karen Fireman: w is Karen I did wonder, you mentioned that you don't like the pie charts too much, but you could always put the percent in the pie or right next to the pie for each for each of the pieces and that would get away from the problem you were saying about not being able to tell the percent.
Usera, Daniel: yeah um.
Usera, Daniel: I think I might have clarified this and maybe I maybe I didn't do it well enough i'm not necessary, I have a okay so it's kind of like this, there are.
Usera, Daniel: radicals on both sides, and there are moderates okay when it comes to part pie charts there are some who are people who are radically against our or against pie charts some people hate them and so they're just like no pie charts.
Usera, Daniel: Then some people are like no pie charts are always good use that these are simple the sea and all that stuff i'm like a moderate so.
Usera, Daniel: I don't think everything should be all parts of whole relationships have to necessarily be a pie chart.
Usera, Daniel: So um, but I think some things if there aren't too many slices and the slices are big enough so that, in their disparate enough that you can tell the differences i'm still Okay, with a pie chart.
Usera, Daniel: So if you're trying to show 7075 25 comparison, I think the pie charts fine, but if you have like a 12% 13% and the 70% and then a 20% and you have all these slices that make it very difficult to assess size and a pie chart probably wouldn't be your best.
Usera, Daniel: visualization, but you can do like a log like a little bar and perhaps do it that way, or just break it out into like a.
Usera, Daniel: stacked bar chart or something like that to something else, so it depends on the number of entries and the the dispersion between the amounts on that, so I just want to clarify i'm not.
Usera, Daniel: i'm not anti march March, full stop i'm just kind of a moderate like think about how many entries, you have in dispersion and such so.
Usera, Daniel: i'm on that point So yes, you could put the percentages on the pie chart assuming that the the how the pipe depending on how many entries, there are and how big the slices are you can like fit those in kind of thing so um yeah.
Usera, Daniel: And then, of course, like in chat some people don't like so I guess all the doesn't like pie charts So there you go so that so people have very strong opinions either way the other i'm just kind of in the middle.
Usera, Daniel: And I just talked about I don't like 3D pie charts, so I do take a stand on that I don't like 3D.
Usera, Daniel: I don't like 3D know cake charts so if you're going to do a pie chart keep it 2d so that would be my point on that so does that answer your question or concern.
Karen Fireman: yeah Thank you.
Usera, Daniel: yeah so.
Usera, Daniel: I think probably gone for two years, and my instructor used to say, there are two words that should always make you suspicious always end ever.
Usera, Daniel: So whenever you hear always there's problems, especially in communication, of all things communication is contextual like everything.
Usera, Daniel: It depends on the audience what your goals are what the constraints are in that situation and what you think is a fitting response so.
Usera, Daniel: There can be places where a pie chart makes a lot of sense, but then there might be other places where it doesn't so we try to stay away from always and never went possible and try to look at context and that's how you should always look at communication too.
Usera, Daniel: So we try to give you some universal principles that we think will apply in many contexts.
Usera, Daniel: But there's always going to be a context where I mean you can always imagine a context where something wouldn't hold true so but we try to give you general ones that we think would work in those cases, or what we also call rules of thumb.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so what's so i'm just looking at the chat now so now we're looking at the time pie okay just but make sure we I can actually see question so if you have questions they want me to answer probably want to say then since we're talking about the combine.
Usera, Daniel: And yes, Lee that was part of the so that's part of the same right all generalizations or false that's another version of that saying yes.
Usera, Daniel: yeah so always be suspicious of the words always endeavor yes.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, other questions or comments or.
Usera, Daniel: Things that stood out to you in the in the in the lecture series that you wanted to bring up.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so what we'll do first is how about we just look at some let's critique some charts and see what we can do some before and afters and just kind of make sure we understand the visualization side.
Usera, Daniel: And then i'm going to add another layer so i'm going to live lecture today some things to you as well, to help you get ready for your do y'all have a presentation coming up this spring, what is your thesis right is that right your actual full shebang accounting capstone thesis okay.
Usera, Daniel: So what i'm going to do let's do some exercises, this is kind of see make sure we understand some what's going on here with databases.
Usera, Daniel: And i'm going to add another layer
Usera, Daniel: That will help you build your slides in a way that I think will look really nice it's based on the McKinsey method and the McKinsey model of slide slide design that I think will make them look really nice.
Usera, Daniel: For enter in there may for technical presentations, which is the type that you all, are doing and then we'll go from there, so just give me one second here to.
Usera, Daniel: Share okay so i'm going to need to put this in presentation mode, can you all see the presentation slide exercises.
Usera, Daniel: just want to make sure everyone can see just thumbs up or something or say yeah so I can't i'm in full screen mode okay great so i'm just going to get this up here okay so first let's do a concept slide here so let's say somebody presenting a slide.
Usera, Daniel: So i'm trying to move mine got it.
Okay.
Usera, Daniel: i'm adjusting things are moving some furniture, so I can see you all, and then also see the slide decks just give me one second okay.
Usera, Daniel: alright.
Usera, Daniel: So let's say this guy is presenting about Texas Community colleges and they adapted a performance based funding model from States 50 Community colleges and then they're going through and saying here are the components okay now.
Usera, Daniel: If we're doing concept visualization so remember the first video lecture was about conceptual visualization so conceptual digitalization is all about.
Usera, Daniel: How do we visualize concepts so non numerical concepts, how do we visualize relationships.
Usera, Daniel: Those kinds of things so anytime you're dealing with non numerical data you're doing conceptual visualization, how do you take raw text and make it more visual so we don't have to read.
Usera, Daniel: The whole slide to understand what's going on, because, in the context of a presentation you're going to be talking.
Usera, Daniel: And then you're going to be showing something, but the audience can't read and listen to you talk at the same time it's not possible, they can either listen to you.
Usera, Daniel: Or look at the slide or read the slide in tune you out just so they can read the slide what we want the audience to do is to be able to listen to us but also see the point.
Usera, Daniel: that's the whole point of PowerPoint presentation is that help the audience sees so it's a visual see the point and get it as quickly as clearly as possible, if I had to summarize data visualization and one sentence, it would be make your point as quickly and clearly as possible.
Usera, Daniel: So, whether it's a graph whether it's a concept map make the point quickly and clearly that's the goal of good data this.
Usera, Daniel: Now.
Usera, Daniel: If we take a slide like this, this is very wordy, and this is going to take a lot of reading to do and, by the way this is somebody.
Usera, Daniel: And this capstone Okay, so this is someone's capstone, this is what they did now it's not terrible but it's just like can we simplify this, so we can see the point quickly and clearly without having to read all this text.
Usera, Daniel: So does anybody have any ideas on how we can do that.
Usera, Daniel: Say sitting over time.
Wilson Pineda: So Wilson, I say we probably want to put everything in bold letters to start with.
Usera, Daniel: yeah and then that kind of busy too and everything's in bold you probably want to use bold scary link.
Usera, Daniel: dues goal to it to use it as a header to establish some kind of hierarchy and then the sub points probably shouldn't people that.
Usera, Daniel: So yeah I mean if you're gonna if you're going to do this if you're going to keep this textual like this, then you probably don't want to bold everything use a font that's obviously not like spaghetti thin but don't use something don't go this extreme either, and is bold everything.
Usera, Daniel: So.
Usera, Daniel: Let me show you what I did, and this will cut down a lot of the points but also still allow you to see how this all works, so my understanding of this slide is that there's three components.
Usera, Daniel: To the performance based funding model first is based on core operations and that's what the College operations need to just keep their doors open, the second is based on student success points.
Usera, Daniel: So that's now dependent on student achievement, and then the third components, based on contact hours.
Usera, Daniel: So you're talking about components of a relationship right so it's like a part two whole conceptual relationship, the.
Usera, Daniel: Funding PDF is comprised of three components, so that seems to me like a parts of whole relationship now we're not going to do a pie chart of this but here's what I would do.
Usera, Daniel: So if I was going to say here's a performance funding based funding model it's comprised of three components.
Usera, Daniel: i'll say first it's based on core operations and I symbolized cooperations with these cog wheels, because that makes you think Okay, this is what keeps the doors open, and I would say, every community college gets $500,000 a year.
Usera, Daniel: Then I would say what's also part of the performance based.
Usera, Daniel: funding model is students access points and students access points is based on student academic achievement, and that if I need to cite the source i'll put the source at the bottom there.
Usera, Daniel: And I would say, student academic achievements really important to performance based funding model and it's about usually 10% of what a college gets a Community college gets have based on how well they score on that metric.
Usera, Daniel: And then lastly it's based also on contact hours and contact hours is the amount of time that instructors spend with students in the classroom and that's going to comprise about 90% of the additional funding that goes into the performance based funding model.
Usera, Daniel: So notice how it's visual I don't have to read anything but as an audience Member but, as I talked through it i'm still explaining everything to you, and you can still understand exactly.
Usera, Daniel: What the performance based funding model is it's 500 K plus 10% X of students access points plus 90% you know contact hours and there you go that's how you can simplify this to be something more visual and to work quickly and clearly see the point.
Usera, Daniel: Now i'm in full screen mode, I cannot see the chat So if you have questions or comments just interject already i'll try to see if I can.
Usera, Daniel: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: Alright, so I don't think I see anything does that I have to stop and look at the chat so um and then all then asking you split the slides out, yes, that would be another option.
Usera, Daniel: I think i'll show you that, let me show you that later because that's another technique, we can use so we're going to look at a lot of slides today that we can improve but yes, that would also be.
Usera, Daniel: A possibility and then depending on how you visualize each slide you can totally make that work so that's another thing like.
Usera, Daniel: If you don't get it to it by seven o'clock you don't have to do everything on one slide.
Usera, Daniel: You don't have to do everything on one slide you can break things up into smaller slides there's no limitation and I don't think your thesis says you can't go longer than 30 slides I don't think that's a requirement or less that's required that requirement is there a slide limit rule.
Usera, Daniel: 35 Oh, there is, you can go longer than 35 slides or 35 minutes.
Clay Coleman: 35 slides.
Clay Coleman: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right, so, then you have to be a little bit more efficient okay in our mind.
Usera, Daniel: And the real world.
Usera, Daniel: And the real world, you don't have they don't usually have slide limits, they have time limits.
Usera, Daniel: But that doesn't mean you have to spend five minutes on every slide you can have a 32nd slide a one minute slide a 15 second slide depending on what's on it.
Usera, Daniel: So, but okay you ever 35 minutes or 35 slight limit okay so you'll be efficient you'll be efficient and you'll know what needs to be emphasized versus what is.
Usera, Daniel: periphery okay or peripheral.
Usera, Daniel: Now that's a conceptual side that's a concept slide that you can our concepts example that i've shown you here.
Usera, Daniel: And let's see i'm just trying to make sure I keep chat Lee yes, so one thing I would say, and we're going to talk about this more directly in the next slide deck or this the third slide deck that will look at.
Usera, Daniel: When you cite sources what i've seen, at least in classes.
Usera, Daniel: Is students will have a final sources slide called references and then all the sources are on that slide and I call it the garbage references slide because.
Usera, Daniel: it's usually a garbage time of the presentation like you've finished the presentation and you're like oh here my sources, and you have like two seconds to look at it, and then they close it and then you don't get to.
Usera, Daniel: You don't get to play you don't get to really see what the sources were and when, where they used, what was the context in which such stories with us.
Usera, Daniel: If you have the source at the bottom of the slide when you use it, it has to a dentist number one you know when the sources being used like you can go exactly to where it was at that moment.
Usera, Daniel: And then number two when you're presenting you don't have to try to remember all your sources.
Usera, Daniel: Your slide will help you remember when the site and when not to site because you'll have the source right there so then, when you say.
Usera, Daniel: Performance based funding is based on core operations $500,000 it's also based on students access points and according to Community college spotlight in 2015 that amounts to about 10% on average per you know.
Usera, Daniel: Schools, I mean, whatever the whatever the point is okay so makes it easy for you to cite the source and it's right there, we can appreciate it we didn't notice it, we can interrogate it all those things so that's my source of the bottoms always like.
Usera, Daniel: I don't using always, but this is actually something I scan a lot, I stand really firmly behind like that it's it's I there's very few I can't think of very many circumstances where you wouldn't want to come to source on the flight.
Usera, Daniel: Unless you just don't have any states like you just spaced it out, but you should try to make that states, because it's important like if I don't know where you got your numbers from that's a huge problem, like that's a huge problem.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, for credibility all right.
Usera, Daniel: Now here's another graph So this was one when I was doing some corporate training for tech company, this is the graphic AV okay and they're like we need help with the graph so I did I did a whole database.
Usera, Daniel: Corporate training session with them Okay, so this was a legal, there were a software development company for law firms and accounting firms okay so.
Usera, Daniel: manager comes to me and she's like or a director comes to me is like we need better graphs in this Okay, so what can be better about this graph first off what's wrong with this graph.
Usera, Daniel: Or how could this crappy better, or is it scrapped good and they were just I just need money for that reason.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: To see out of 100 for everything makes it kind of visually john doesn't want to tell you that much.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so you said, out of 100 so, can you say a little bit more.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: To say more about that structured is not actually that useful you can't actually tell what's going on the side from yes, it is the percentage, but it doesn't.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: give you any other context of what's going on in the month there's a lot more that you could get from this in a bar chart, but we can sort of information.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Much more density.
Usera, Daniel: Okay.
Usera, Daniel: So you think that you could do more.
Usera, Daniel: And like you can do you should be you should be able to give more information, besides just percentages.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I mean I wouldn't want to know if they did, one if they were in one contest or five right this doesn't tell me if you have a slight increase in percentage wins, but you have a drop in cases like yes, that makes sense and the percentage is less indicative of what's going on.
Usera, Daniel: Okay Okay, so I see so you're saying like you would want to know more about the context of the percentage, so how many contests occurred each month because that might influence, whether you want 45% but there was only three contests that month or something.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Well, you.
Usera, Daniel: might have been 10 okay sounds like an information deficit.
Usera, Daniel: Okay yeah.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Our current quantity percentage on my usual go through.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so when we post the revision, to be fair, I wasn't given that information either, so I just went off what they gave me here, but that would be a question that, from an interpretive standpoint.
Usera, Daniel: yeah I mean like if I was trying to figure out action based on this graph like maybe that would be an important number to know so but.
Usera, Daniel: I did not have that information either when I revise this graph but Okay, but that's that's a good point that is a good point from an interpretive standpoint Okay, what else.
Usera, Daniel: So travis says tiny.
Usera, Daniel: yeah might be too tiny if you, and so I don't I didn't look and see what the I think this is 12 this is size 12.
Usera, Daniel: I assume that's what you're referring to is.
Travis Smith: Well, what i'm talking about is your eyes are naturally going to those percentages right and they're bald they're taking your eyes away from that, as opposed to focusing in on the actual.
Travis Smith: graph itself and how it's fluctuating right and so also everything so small and hard to see that you're too busy focusing on trying to read, as opposed to understanding what it's representing.
Usera, Daniel: uh huh okay yeah.
Usera, Daniel: It takes a lot of work.
Usera, Daniel: So that's what we want to avoid in database Okay, especially, especially when you're presenting to non technical audiences.
Usera, Daniel: We want people to just look at the graph and see the point as quickly as possible, what is the takeaway that you want me to have.
Usera, Daniel: And we want you to build the graph highlights what's important as quickly as possible, so I don't have to think if I had to think about the graph.
Usera, Daniel: And i'm not thinking about the message, or like what the takeaway is that's bad see the worst thing that can happen to you as a presenter isn't that I disagree with your findings.
Usera, Daniel: The worst thing that can happen to you as a presenter is I didn't understand your graph or I didn't understand what you said.
Usera, Daniel: That is the worst case scenario Okay, so we want it, so that when people look at the graph they get the point quickly.
Usera, Daniel: Now there are some other things to that people have mentioned so rotate rotate one at rotate to 70 I assume what you're all saying it's horizontal rotation, is what you're saying I saw I wasn't good at.
Usera, Daniel: That I assume that's horizontal.
Usera, Daniel: And then, Jim says, you need horizontal grid lines okay that's a question like is that.
Usera, Daniel: Do we need to know that I don't know I don't know because you already have the percentages here, so I don't know if you really need the grid lines, either because you already have marked them so that might be a simplicity question can we simplify this graph in some way.
Usera, Daniel: So these are all good points, and then vertical grid lines do, are you saying we don't need them or.
Usera, Daniel: So i'm not sure vertical grid lines and then brandon X white intercept and then, what do you mean by that to Kendall.
Kendall Sizemore: Do you see the random blind at 55% and October between October 18 of November 18 there's no reason that needs to be there.
Usera, Daniel: i'm trying to find it so October between.
Kendall Sizemore: Where you see the dot the dashed lines in between those two bars.
Usera, Daniel: Oh, oh yeah yeah.
Usera, Daniel: Oh yeah that is like.
Usera, Daniel: yeah, why is that that's a good question.
Kendall Sizemore: I know yeah.
Usera, Daniel: Okay yeah I have no idea why that's there either.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, and I think coloration is off to somebody mentioned that as well.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so here's what I did.
Usera, Daniel: here's what I did, and maybe it's not perfect and maybe it is who knows.
Usera, Daniel: But here's my thought on this just what the information I was provided, so I don't have like how many contests, where each month, and all that, but this is what i'm thinking Okay, so I went ahead and I just said once you do this.
Usera, Daniel: So yeah, these are the top law firms one average 53% of contest in the first year when you look at this graph let's go back real fast.
Usera, Daniel: who won, who won the most like it's hard to know you have to kind of look across and then you have to guess, so I guess.
Usera, Daniel: This is law firm, so how many did law firms, when you have to really think about it right, you have to count and I guess it looks like the last one, is it looks like right.
Usera, Daniel: Because or to know to because 50% here so anywhere they're less than 50% I guess that's where they lost the most right.
Usera, Daniel: So.
Usera, Daniel: If you do this what you that allows you to do is you draw this line here then it's easy to see when law firms cross that 50% line, those are the ones that they want, so how many did law firms when or how many do they lose.
Usera, Daniel: Most of etc, to the last whites that was it anytime they didn't cross the 50% line they didn't win.
Usera, Daniel: Now, James thinks there's too much white space okay that's a design thing you can make the bars bigger if you want, I, like the white space, because then you can tell each month.
Usera, Daniel: Pretty clearly and then it still gives it like a clean look so on, but you can argue one if you think there's should be less or not.
Usera, Daniel: So the white space is thinner than the width of the bars.
Usera, Daniel: But I kept the color scheme I didn't get rid of that because I wanted because green represents law firms Okay, so I match that to the thesis now you know and there you go now if you're still concerned like well I don't know what the bars mean.
Usera, Daniel: You can have one percentage here, and then you can integrate that with the bar as well.
Usera, Daniel: And if you want oh sorry I thought I had something else you can but yeah you can do that too, you can have the wind percentage there if you feel like I don't know what the percentages okay well there you go.
Usera, Daniel: And then um.
Usera, Daniel: yeah so as far as accessibility goes, so I think there's some questions about.
Usera, Daniel: About coloration yeah so you have to depend, it depends on who your audiences, if you have people who.
Usera, Daniel: Are colorblind, then you have to pick different colors so you have to pick darker ones, and I think you have to do, I don't remember the specific ones that you have to better the best, but like definitely black.
Usera, Daniel: is a good one, and then something else so yeah you have to look up like orange orange and blue yeah.
Usera, Daniel: And then I was at 83% if they've just lost two out of 12 uh let's see 53% of monthly contests in the first year so well what's the percentage of what's 212.
Usera, Daniel: it's how many they one so actually it should be whatever 73% So yes, maybe it was a typo on my part, my bad okay so it's whatever the percentage of 10 out of 12.
Usera, Daniel: So that's like what 88% something like that.
Usera, Daniel: So 369 12 that's where 12 because there's 12 there's 12 different contests that's where this all came from.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so the idea here is is that you're trying to simplify the point and you're highlighting the point so.
Usera, Daniel: what's the thesis and how can I highlight that thesis on the graph that's what you're trying to go for when you're doing data this so.
Usera, Daniel: Whenever the thesis figure that out, first, what do I want people to take away from this graph.
Usera, Daniel: And then ask yourself self, how can I make that as graphically evidence as possible to the reader or to the viewer.
Usera, Daniel: Now there's different ways, you can highlight a point here, I did it with coloration and this little line here.
Usera, Daniel: If you don't want to use coloration you could use call outs so call outs would be little boxes that point two specific things, or you can use size make something bigger make something smaller.
Usera, Daniel: So i'll show you some other things later that can give you some more ideas on that front, but those are that's the general principle now, what about something like this.
Usera, Daniel: You have a better way to visualize this, or is this says it's just table data.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: It looks like someone just copy directly in front, like a portion of a working spreadsheet directly into the PowerPoint take a third of our jobs.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, and all then said why oh man, I see your brain to this.
yeah.
Usera, Daniel: yeah okay so look sometimes people are in a rush I understand and finance and excel it's just easier, just to copy and paste and then just give the quick presentation.
Usera, Daniel: And all that so probably, and this is a real, this is one thing that gave me too so um you know yeah that that's the thing happens, the struggle is real, yes, it is, but if you're going to do something with this.
Usera, Daniel: I don't know I think you can, if it's just pure text and there's not really there's not really a relationship being shown right maybe with the percentages, you can argue a part of whole relationship.
Usera, Daniel: And such but if you're just showing like count numbers like you're just showing a number but you're not showing a relationship this isn't too far off, but maybe you would just do something like this.
Usera, Daniel: You know, and I literally for this, I was lazy to so I just use Microsoft audit design on this one out of 200 merchants we process 97 partners process 7332 cancelled.
Usera, Daniel: And there we go, I mean that would be one way to visualize least some of it, it looks nicer it doesn't look like I just copied and pasted a table into something, and you know it gets the point across.
Usera, Daniel: So that's all we're doing that's all we're doing here finding better ways to visualize data, so people can get the point quickly and the presentation and clearly quickly and clearly Those are the two criteria of database.
Usera, Daniel: We want to see the point quickly so quickly with a good thesis good call outs good design and clearly that's where emphasizing things making using call outs all those things we want it to be quick and clear that's only one making clear.
Usera, Daniel: All right.
Usera, Daniel: Now.
Usera, Daniel: let's see at 636 so let me show you some other things, and then we'll call the call the day here.
Right.
Usera, Daniel: me one, second, are there any questions, while we transition.
Okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right.
Usera, Daniel: So you can see, this slide Can you see the data does and slide arrangement slide okay.
Usera, Daniel: So.
Usera, Daniel: As a quick review.
Usera, Daniel: Those of you who did not watch the PowerPoint or the excuse me, the data visualization video lecture here's a quick summary of the steps and then we're going to add a layer so first we have determine the context so.
Usera, Daniel: The book storytelling with data which we all I don't think I assigned to the book, but the book is free online at Texas a&m library, I can send you the link, if you want to look at it.
Usera, Daniel: But the book itself says a binary exploratory or explanatory contexts, so when something's exploratory do, but those of you did watch the lecture when something's exploratory what does that mean when it's an exploratory context.
Karen Fireman: You have something you want to tell them something particularly want them to get out of it.
Usera, Daniel: that's the other one so that's the opposite.
Karen Fireman: Here right oh that was explanatory Sir.
Usera, Daniel: But yes.
Usera, Daniel: you're right, so the explanatory context that's when you have a thesis you have a point that you want them to see and you want to make that point clear.
Usera, Daniel: that's explanatory exploratory and so some of you so in an artistry here, some of you will give presentations that are exploratory nature exploratory means you don't have a thesis for this data you're still trying to figure out what this data means.
Usera, Daniel: Like you're trying to figure out what the conclusion is you're not sure what the actual point is you're just putting some data for people to see and letting other people kind of figure out.
Usera, Daniel: or trying to figure out together what it means you use the exploratory context when you're brainstorming.
Usera, Daniel: or when you are exploring something that you don't know the answer to and you're seeking advice or you're seeking consultation on.
Usera, Daniel: pretty much anybody can do exploratory data visualization because all you do is put up a graph on the screen that's it what we're trying to train you to do is the more difficult thing which is explanatory.
Usera, Daniel: you've conducted an analysis and you have findings and you want the audience to see those findings quickly and clearly you, you want them to see a specific point you have a specific argument you want to make.
Usera, Daniel: And you want them want to use the data to facilitate supporting that argument.
Usera, Daniel: So you're going to have exploratory or explanatory PowerPoint so what we're trying to show you is explore explanatory style data this.
Usera, Daniel: Now the second step is using appropriate display so once you've seen your numbers in SAB your raw data, you have to decide what kind of relationship, am I showing and what's most appropriate for visualizing that relationship you'll either use dots like a scatter graph.
Usera, Daniel: bars for like a bar graph lines for a line graph or boxes for like a box and whisker plot and then there's in betweens like you know, a line graph a bar graph with also a trend line and such but you want to be sure that you're using the right visual display so we know that.
Usera, Daniel: Once you have major display and you're totally welcome to use whatever software program you want, but just make sure that it has all the good elements.
Usera, Daniel: You want to eliminate eliminate unnecessary elements, so can you get rid of some legends and integrate those with the graph.
Usera, Daniel: Can you get rid of some of the grid lines that you may not need.
Usera, Daniel: Could some borders go away, could you integrate the units, the graph units on the y axis and X axis and put those at the top, with the graph title so, then you don't have to play I basketball right remember.
Usera, Daniel: basketball looking up and down just have to figure things out and data this we call it, I travel are there ways we can minimize I traveled so the audience can see the points, without having to look left and right up and down to understand every single little thing.
Usera, Daniel: And then.
Usera, Daniel: You highlight the main points so when you highlight the main point you're going to highlight a specific area on the graph that you want the audience to notice.
Usera, Daniel: It might be a trend line, it might be noticed this increase here or notice this particular bar here, whatever it is, you want to make the point graphically self evident.
Usera, Daniel: How you highlight you can use color contrast, you can use size, you can use position, and you can use ordering those are the four ways, you can.
Usera, Daniel: From visual grammar standpoint using visual grammar you can highlight something make it stand out in color make it stand out in size.
Usera, Daniel: put it in a prime position so listed first are listed last or order it in or position it to be in a specific like in the Center or on the left or on the Right or order it in a specific way like chronological or big to small small to big and so forth.
Usera, Daniel: And then lastly.
Usera, Daniel: right that these is up top.
Usera, Daniel: So put the takeaway at either the top or the bottom of the graph what's the takeaway this graph, what do you want me to see put that clearly at the top, are pretty clear at the bottom.
Usera, Daniel: The reason, one of the takeaways some people don't know how to interpret grass, you might have a non technical person in your audience who just doesn't know how to read grass grass and scary.
Usera, Daniel: have to take away the top if management looks at your grass later down the road when you're not presenting and they get a copy of your PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: If they had the takeaway the top they know exactly what to take away from the graph without you being there, you see, and then that way you ensure people don't misinterpret what you presented in writing or in your PowerPoint deck in case you're not there to explain it.
Usera, Daniel: So here's some raw data that I had my MBA students do so, I gave them this data, this is FBI crime data from 26 2000 6016.
Usera, Daniel: Now we could present it like this at the table, but the problem is what's the relationship here.
Usera, Daniel: Now you all are smart quantitative people.
Usera, Daniel: So you would probably know already looking here property crimes gone up like you can already see that, like if you just look at the right column like clearly yeah property crimes.
Usera, Daniel: What about here what's happened what's happened is it gone up gone down is that are we trending in a good direction or no okay.
Usera, Daniel: So this is where data visualization makes life easier because that visualization can tell you all those things quicker than me having to look at every single number and remember to go up or go down from the previous it just takes a long time to get the point okay.
Usera, Daniel: Now i'm totally agnostic how you visualize your data, but we just want to make sure you apply good data this principle so here I just went ahead and went to excel copied pasted the data.
Usera, Daniel: And this is your typical excel charts Okay, so your excel charts naturally made it look like this, but this isn't done Okay, this is a good starting point but it's not a good ending point there's a lot of things we probably want to do to make this.
Usera, Daniel: graph better or make this chart better what are some things that we can do to make this chart better just real fast like one or two things we can do need some scaling okay so explain.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You will need to adjust the access or four, I would say both of them to see the real impact of fluctuation fluctuations of both lines.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so maybe you could scale the access, you know, and I didn't do that honestly but yes, that would be something you can do dual access, what about the like the design of the graph.
Usera, Daniel: So, could we do something about.
Usera, Daniel: Like yourself the coloration is not good, because it's hard to tell even what property crime is like that's a very not good distinction between color like I think that would be a huge problem on some screens so different colors.
Usera, Daniel: and honestly like I would probably put property crime by it, instead of having this axis here, why not put property crime here and violent crime here, then I don't even have to remember the lines, because there will be labeled right here, and here, and then I can see everything right away.
Usera, Daniel: Okay y axis might have so many zeros yeah so you could probably simplify that.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so here's kind of a basic look of what you could do so you add your thesis at the top okay property crime grows well violent crime stagnates.
Usera, Daniel: I changed property crime to something more distinct than violent crime different color and then you know right away that property crime is different than violent crime.
Usera, Daniel: I simplify the access and then what I did was I added a graph title and the graph title tells you the years that happen, and then the reported cases of millions, so now, you know this is 2 million 4,000,006 million and so forth.
Usera, Daniel: So now, you have a point, and now you can see the point now.
Usera, Daniel: Is this like enough like so Okay, so is that it well so far so far um and I Jim us why one, why do you, what do you mean.
Usera, Daniel: Sorry, Jim Clark asked, could you have why one and why to.
Usera, Daniel: A left and right why access.
Jim Clark: Sometimes I I have information that that very suppressed them on on watch scale, or sometimes you might want to freescale the violent crimes and you see if there is any kind of relationship, even though it's just everything is squashed will usually it looks like it's flat.
Jim Clark: fee, but there.
Jim Clark: could be a relationship that you can't see.
Jim Clark: Okay well let's match on one one y axis yeah okay.
Usera, Daniel: that's that's fair so maybe if you want to, and so this is where things get interesting right because technically.
Usera, Daniel: Like when you create it on excel, this is what XL gave you right, and this is kind of like you know you're not doing anything bad, but it's kind of like this.
Usera, Daniel: And this is something I always think about database there's no facts about framing right and there's always ways, you can make something look better or look worse.
Usera, Daniel: And data this there's always kind of Gray area, so you can make it look like, not a big deal by just making this the scale bigger right well it's not that big if you compare it to this, or if you compare it to that.
Usera, Daniel: yeah and that's totally something and data this that's totally something that you have to think about is.
Usera, Daniel: How you bring things.
Usera, Daniel: and high slides things.
Yes.
Lee Rainwater: i'm sorry, something that can happen when you use a second why access, you can end up basically obfuscating the difference between the two quantities that you're attempting to plot.
Lee Rainwater: Basically, creates an effect that you're not looking for, for example, if I were to put those on axes of different scales, you really wouldn't be able to see the difference in the proportion or the proportion between the violent crime and the property crimes.
and
Usera, Daniel: So you're saying it's kind of a trade off to having a second glance this.
Usera, Daniel: Correct yeah, so this is what's important to you guys are asking good questions and making good comments so.
Usera, Daniel: When you visualize data, the first thing you have to ask is what point, am I trying to make when you're doing explanatory database.
Usera, Daniel: So Elizabeth is exactly right it depends on the question you're asking as well, so if i'm trying to make an argument that property crime is a bigger threat than violent crime.
Usera, Daniel: How am I visualize my data versus if i'm trying to say no violent crime is even though property crime has gone up violent crime is actually still a big deal don't forget about violent crime like don't forget people, by the time still a thing you know.
Usera, Daniel: Those points have different ways, you can visualize to make that point more clear.
Usera, Daniel: makes sense, so everything is an argument that was the one thing, like my did a coach in college us and say you know it's not what you do it's what you justify everything is an argument.
Usera, Daniel: So, whether I were to put that in writing or I would put that in the graph a graph isn't arguments a graph is an argument that you're making, and so the more you can.
Usera, Daniel: Make that argument, the case you can, but you also want to add credibility to grab it, you can add percentage change so maybe do a percentage change grab if you want to try to be more objective, you can try to go that route as well.
Usera, Daniel: there's trade offs to that as well, so these are the kinds of decisions, you have to make as a data as a data visualization is what am I trying to do and how do I want to do it and how can I still ensure that i'm not.
Usera, Daniel: Being deceptive, but still making my point and still be incredible.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, but there's more I want to do with this graph there's actually more so, this is the second layer I want to add so.
Usera, Daniel: The basic layer that you've seen now when you do your data sites is have a thesis or takeaway have a graph title, so we know exactly what we're looking at.
Usera, Daniel: And then have your chart or graph and then have your data source at the bottom.
Usera, Daniel: I would say, this would take up about 20% of the slide this should be about 70 75% of slide and then the data should be about five to 10% depending on the math there.
Usera, Daniel: And then that would be your basic I would say technical presentation slide you would have these four.
Usera, Daniel: components thesis or takeaway or what's the point at the top, so people know right away, this is the point.
Usera, Daniel: Then what's the graph title what's the data that i'm looking at here, so this is where you explain these are the variables you're looking at, and this is the scale and then the actual graph itself and then where you got the numbers fraud.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so that's that now, I know you all, are you all, because you all are kind of doing consulting presentations is that right because you're you're doing data and then you're making a recommendation is that my understanding.
Usera, Daniel: Essentially.
of your thing.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: It really depends on people's capstone is going to be directly tied to their employer, so there might be making a pitch of.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: This is how you can save some money if something does that affect other people's or maybe business oriented, but not necessarily their company and so it's not as much of a I have to convince someone with this project as much as a, this is what I found this on the question I started.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, in a way, this arrangement, I want to show you I think will be really good for your presentations consulting or not.
Usera, Daniel: So let me show you it, so this is the McKinsey and it's based on the McKinsey method of doing PowerPoint.
Usera, Daniel: So the way McKinsey does their slides, and this is an actual McKinsey slide there's a couple things that they add an opening on time, so I might have to try not to speed, but still give you all the points here.
Usera, Daniel: mackenzie slide will have a couple things first will have an action title and actually entitled to the slide generally tells you this is the so one of the slide kind of like the thesis but.
Usera, Daniel: it's kind of like here's the takeaway for as far as my argument goes in this presentation so here they're they're analyzing usps.
Usera, Daniel: And I was not there for the presentation I don't have the original I just have the slides so i'm not a subject matter expert on the findings and such.
Usera, Daniel: But basically, they give you some kind of action title and it's called action title because it's the so what here's what this means for you the the clients or, this is what this means for you, for the argument that i'm trying to make.
Usera, Daniel: Then you have the graph title, so the graph title tells you this is what you're seeing below and you want to make sure you explain what just what's below here.
Usera, Daniel: Then you have the graph units, so this allows you to eliminate like graph titles on the wire, it looks X axis, if you put it within the graph title.
Usera, Daniel: Then you have the actual data.
Usera, Daniel: And then they have these things, called call outs I highly recommend you use call outs, when you want to draw the audience's attention to something or to help contextualize a specific number or to give further explanation behind a number.
Usera, Daniel: And what you can do is when you're delivering this presentation, you can have the action title the top make the graphic here.
Usera, Daniel: And then, as we talked through the graph you can have the call outs appear just on animation on click and then it's like you're walking us through the graph and telling us, the story of the graph.
Usera, Daniel: They also have a footnote at the bottom use but notes basically to indicate if.
Usera, Daniel: there's some kind of qualification, to the data or the source that you need to call out or, if you want to give some background explanation behind something.
Usera, Daniel: That you don't want to put as a call out, you can use that as a footnote, and then, of course, you have the slide number I highly recommend, on your slide decks you have a slide number at the bottom right.
Usera, Daniel: The reason being when you have to do Q amp a it's much easier for somebody who's taking notes and being attentive to sake and you go back to slide 10 vs.
Usera, Daniel: Can you go back to that one slide it's the one where you show the graph and then you have to describe it, and then you have to like.
Usera, Daniel: This one you know, like, no, no, no, is another one that one no, you know, and then you have to do that just have a slide number makes it way easier.
Usera, Daniel: And then you have your source okay So you see what they do here action title graph title units data call outs, but note slide source any questions about that.
Usera, Daniel: Now here's another slide and one thing and i'm not saying the kinsey is perfect by any means, but i'm just giving you like a good basis for understanding kind of like.
Usera, Daniel: Where I think you all, should go with your slides with pretty technical presentations that you're doing so two other things you can point out.
Usera, Daniel: What they also do is sometimes put their takeaway at the bottom and the way I distinguish the two.
Usera, Daniel: The takeaway for like the bottom, the bottom takeaway is more or less like a scientific interpretation of the graph like it kind of tells you this is what the graph means mathematically or scientifically.
Usera, Daniel: And then the action title is like here's what it means for you generally kind of thing like here's for the non technical people, this is what it means for the technical people, this is what it means.
Usera, Daniel: So, then you hit your both your technical and non technical audience and same time because sometimes you'll be presenting in purely.
Usera, Daniel: Technical audiences and then you don't you know you still want to make it relatable but you don't have to worry about it as much.
Usera, Daniel: But when you have mixed audiences, which is probably going to be more frequent than you think.
Usera, Daniel: where you have tiny little people in the room, and also non technical people in the room, you can't just talk to the technical people because you'll leave that the non technical people out so you have to figure out how I can.
Usera, Daniel: accommodate both audiences having both will help will help with that.
Usera, Daniel: And then also one thing they do, they have these things on the right called stickers so stickers are basically little notes that tell you how to take the slide so they might have stickers that say preliminary illustrated.
Usera, Daniel: For discussion might be a sticker What it does is it tells you how to take the slide and not to take everything as Gospel or permanently it'll be something like this is something that we're still trying to figure out so don't.
Usera, Daniel: Like if you were to pick up this presentation don't assume that this is like the final results.
Usera, Daniel: And then, if they want to add another number or access to compare to they'll use number circles here.
Usera, Daniel: And so what they're saying is here's annual incremental GDP impact by United States and then they're showing you oil and gas production on this waterfall chart and they're comparing it to.
Usera, Daniel: Another set of numbers, the impact on jobs, how does it impact on jobs direct plus indirect so 110,000 $215,000 or 250,000 jobs were impacted and 2020 oil and gas production okay.
Usera, Daniel: So just a solution for that issue, what happens when you have to compare graph and you also want to compare another number, but you don't want to make everything complicated that might be one way, you can do it.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so y'all see this.
Usera, Daniel: And then, one thing I was, I was learning about their.
Usera, Daniel: powerpoints.
Usera, Daniel: approach and they call these slides clothesline slides So these are slides, which is pure bullet points that you just read the people, so they don't like clothesline slides either so.
Usera, Daniel: I called them ldp slides lane bullet points slides they call them clothesline slides because it's like a clothesline you have a little.
Usera, Daniel: clips here and all the clothes hanging out, so what they prefer to do something that I was teaching before does that visualization technique.
Usera, Daniel: Now, and conceptual visualization you can still have a takeaway the top, if you want, if you're showing a concept and you want there to be a clear takeaway to the to the concept, you can totally do that.
Usera, Daniel: But you don't have to, but just another way to think about concept visualization two stories that goes for presentations.
Usera, Daniel: So if I were to redo my graph For that reason, and the scaling is a good point don't get me wrong there, but if we were to do it, I probably add all this to it.
Usera, Daniel: And then still have these top finding crimes or an action title fighting crime should be your focus because that's my argument.
Usera, Daniel: I have a little quick call out here the 26% increase in violent crime, you know, since 2006 or excuse me, property crime.
Usera, Daniel: And then i'll still say property crime grows by violent crime stargate So you can see those points that have a little footnote to explain.
Usera, Daniel: Those figures cover all types of property and violent crimes is it defined by like five pages to find property crime, the FBI breaks them up into different categories I combined all the categories and done my source slide number company.
Usera, Daniel: Okay now do you want to do something better than this do it yeah be better than me.
Usera, Daniel: You think you have better way to visualize the data and all that, by all means do it, but that's kind of those are the elements anyways that you want to have, I think, in a technical slide presentation.
Usera, Daniel: Definitely if if you forget everything else a thesis and highlighting of that thesis on the graph a written thesis and text and a graphically highlighted.
Usera, Daniel: i've read a written thesis in text graphically highlighted in the graph using visual grammar or call outs that would be my if you forget everything else I just said.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so what I can do, I can give you this template if you want it or if you already have your own or it's like a little side arrangement thing if you all have your own, then you can do that too, but I can give you this, if you want this, and that can help guide your.
Usera, Daniel: slide design your slide arrangements, if you like.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, any questions, for me, I know we're close to seven o'clock here.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, so Jim wants it so i'll send it to myra myra will post that that template and what i'll also do is i'll make this a PDF and then you can look through the slide deck again if you want.
Usera, Daniel: And then you know make fun of my graphs or whatever or appreciate them either way but i'll give you a PowerPoint file of the of this.
Usera, Daniel: arrangement template so that way you can just click on some things Okay, so I know we're like almost out of time, but one thing about PowerPoint it's such a pain such pain okay so um when you're dealing with the header and footer.
Usera, Daniel: So it's easy to put in a slide number, and all that, but then like to do the Left footer it makes it the date or time and you can't just have the footer like part blank because when you do if you do it that way, so if I put in source here.
Usera, Daniel: i'm.
Usera, Daniel: Like it doesn't uh Oh, maybe it does work what the heck.
Usera, Daniel: Oh yeah but see if I have to do it every time I think normally Okay, maybe, maybe it works, now they just update this oh that's nice okay nevermind nevermind I guess i'm not going to play anymore, because it works, so I don't know what's going on.
Usera, Daniel: Okay, is there a McKinsey slide style in PowerPoint Well, this is kind of what i'm showing you.
Usera, Daniel: I mean that's kind of like what I emulated so I don't have like an official template from them, but I made this.
Usera, Daniel: So um but you're talking about like the colors and all that, like the color scheme and all that.
Usera, Daniel: Jim Oh, I mean I haven't I haven't found it if you find it, let me know but I haven't found anywhere but yeah but at least have the arrangement, but you want to you want your color scheme to match yeah i'm going to send the PowerPoint of this of this slide here.
Usera, Daniel: You do want to match up you want to match your company, so if you're presenting about a company that's green and yellow I would probably use a green yellow color scheme right or whatever so whatever the.
Usera, Daniel: needs to make sense, what your color scheme is regarding the presentation topic, I think.
Usera, Daniel: yes and yes, can i'll send us a PDF and then i'll send it or excuse me, as a PowerPoint so you can click you'll be able to click and move things and do all the nice things that.
Usera, Daniel: yeah okay any last things for me I don't want to take up anybody else's time are we.
Usera, Daniel: So i'll send that all to myra and we'll call it a good.
Usera, Daniel: Alright, well, thank you all MSA licks always fun talking to you all your great ideas great insights and you all are just wonderful people, so I look forward to I think what's next for us.
Usera, Daniel: We talked about PowerPoint On the 18th On the 18th so I covered a lot there so we'll probably just do a little bit more like critiques if anybody wants to Okay, so how about this for the 18th if we.
Usera, Daniel: If we have you all, if some of you want to have your powerpoints critiqued we can show them to the class and we'll do a class critique about that.
Usera, Daniel: So if you want that email me and we'll we'll go there okay.
Usera, Daniel: All right, thank you all.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so my son.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or one or something like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 738 30 minutes, I give me some common full of everything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is easy to digest all you just look at grass and then we'll get started.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so let's get started so real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you go to he can't play soccer there and our outdated, the presentation just one slide actually other ones on it and i'll show you what it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Basically, the links that I had here, this is kept clicking the links to download this and do all this and have a slide for that, and then I also.
MS Analytics Class 2021: added a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Also, updated the visual studio code slide so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For.
MS Analytics Class 2021: December of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 2020 so, for once, you install an extension that doesn't exist anymore, but there is a new extension that does exist, that we can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can use, so I updated those slides.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we'll get there, so what I did is I just created a link for the slide itself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean I excuse me for the presentation itself, but I did update the full sentence, so if you haven't downloaded the zip file, yet it has the presentation and all that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you just download the zip file, which is, I first link there, it will have to share this screen, or if you're not seeing it or you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: realize that.
Karen Fireman: yeah that's correct they're not seeing the screen because it's not sure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We share it once a sorry I was gonna go i'm talking away and I need to share screen on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so, so this is where I was just showing I just put another link that's just to the PDF that's the presentation last last week, but one of the slide on new slide.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I also have been the zip file and re uploaded it so if you if you haven't downloaded the zip file, which is this link, which has all the code and has the PowerPoint PDF and all that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you haven't downloaded if you just download the zip and on separate you'll get the new, updated slide deck, but if you already downloaded it and been playing on the code you don't want to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: accidentally overwrite it over on it on a definite you can just go out and get it so and then also, of course, I have for tonight there's no code says the PowerPoint that's up there as well, so you can grab that as well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so last week you remember Microsoft did a couple things in these visual studio code in the last couple months that I didn't last month that I didn't know when they got rid of the anaconda extension and it's just built into the Python Ascension and then to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: get away with the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you run your Python for the first time in house in your environment, you have notebooks Jupiter notebook installed in here and find which was that comment install command we did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It prompted me to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run that in this interactive window, so if I forget what that looks like that move this over this order that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's not the one on one second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want the other screen I just cannot minimize it so that's the skill.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the window here, where you can you can run and allows or Python code, Iran and Iraq adult books, so, if you remember.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Last week I was like I could only right click and be running current file under active window.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, if you know someone I have all these different things on from line that are active window in your policy at this line, I want to run from this line, all the way down the bottom, I can click one for mine and you can't see them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's all this right here, so this is an interactive windows stuff right, I should have a announcement on how that anyway i'll show you real quick in case you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: didn't understand what that and also say i'll show you how to actually click on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But now it gives you the ability to to run through and select wines and along those lines, you can run by yourself from this line down the line to this line so like if you were to run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know if you wanted to run all the way to the data set, and you can write select right click select run to live.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like that that's that's what used to when you first ran a file an environment inside of visual studio and you had to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Jupiter notebook Microsoft for the property and say hey do you want to run this interactive window all the time and you'd say yes, and it was something option for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But since it doesn't do it automatically if you go down here to the little less than here and visual studio code, this is what I said announcement you can click this little settings wheel and go to settings right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then it's going to open up the settings and a window and if you say, and this whole sin selection it's like that, and then what you'll end up with the first one that comes back is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is recognize that you have Jupiter and install and so under these are the seven selection interactive window i'm already checked it now yours is probably not checked unless you actually did this for mine often.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you will want you know you'll want to check that, because then that's what turns on here's check it there's no save button and then that you cannot settings.
MS Analytics Class 2021: turn on say see you see this right here, you guys, you can log into visual studio studio code, if you have a Microsoft account, you can log in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And really just about to show them, at least at least puts up in the chat box on the show next.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is you while you ends up the studio code visual studio code across multiple machines you're logged in on you can turn on the studying saints, and your settings will sync across all your multiple machines.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to close it out now let's turn on and then another cool thing you can do now that you have you have the selections and now what's in the notebook other cool thing that I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: learned I didn't know about this, this is when they added this is, you know humor Python from Python advice you have pound sign or comments right well the cool thing about video visual studio code in the pipeline extension and interactive windows is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can put a special comment pound and then should be percent percent or no space in between them, another slide that showed up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once a quarter pound, it gives me the school run so run alone be by itself allows me to create the cells in my code, so that I can now break out my code and easily running a cell, at a time so so yeah this one here and the cool thing is like, if I go down the bottom right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And just just, for example when it comes to let's say if I did here as a percent or 1% percent I got I mean I just said Jamie.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm putting some go here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I run the cell.
MS Analytics Class 2021: notice what he did for me and ran on cell and then automatically put the pound percent percent comment for me to do another self.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is the really cool thing about wildlife the interactive window why like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Why why, like the visual studio code it just makes coming it gives you the notebook experience embedded into a programming, ie experience or as you build a Jupiter notebooks and things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not it's not as intuitive as hardy reba you know it's just creating cells can insert itself can be kind of a pain point, so this is my preferred way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So he says apologizes mask is really hard to talk.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll see maybe I think the shield would be more distracting but this mass is different than one hot last week and it like once or something to monopolize sweet so make sense, and then the final thing i'll show you about visual studio code is any extensions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They added we've added this new extension called Pilates.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What it does is a new mother saw will drop down in the bottom line when you were running and working in this possibly be working with legal to pay, would you like to install pilots are the future performance feature rich.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Python support, and the answer is yes, so you just come up to the extensions click pilots.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you'll find it's like that you should mind says disabled learning and uninstalled some already installed it a click install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: install and they'll say hey would you like to reset it would you like to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: reload your thing once you install it and make sure to reload your visual studio is going to that that extension to name off and all it does is it enables to more feature rich like syntax highlighting different functionality inside of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your Python environment here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So everybody with me right good cool so let's go back to the slide so I put this in here for you and the slide right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That did not go as planned.
MS Analytics Class 2021: y'all see the slide okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One Second, let me do one thing real quick, let me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Take zoom amazing get out of my way.
Come on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna stop sharing for just a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I mean zoom over here where logs and then reshare.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And she says.
hold on one second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me describe the PowerPoint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when I was.
MS Analytics Class 2021: going to be annoying.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, what do you have to do the PDF I apologize.
get this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Out of the way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On one second guys.
MS Analytics Class 2021: y'all see that okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: y'all see that little green thing is, in my way I don't know how to get the Stephen thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's all right there, Dr top another way to get to the top I was like where's that button that I do a lot more teams during the week, this is the only place, I really using and I haven't seen since releases like for this, since so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just put the notes America, so if you forget that what that said attackers I put it in this slide I put you know what the search for have settings also updated for the tax free.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pain is an appliance.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right go straight, how do we so we're talking about the first half of class and over the next you know 3545 minutes to an hour is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How do we take in the Python language and say models, we built in Python to reuse them, so I can go the good we build the model like it may not want to save it so that we can then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Production is this model and use it to predict, you know new data coming in right so i'm just talking about different ways that happened in Python and the and the tools that we have to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No w first half and then the second half of my talk about agile scrum con bond.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and how we do the agile development so so people, so the first protocol talk about is what it's been around for a long time and it's a is the pivotal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: serialization protocol to to realize and be serialized Python objects to from so basically what you're doing this, as you have an object and Python and this case is going to be a modeling built right, so you train the model evaluate the model and how this good model training now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As an object and Python and you want to say that, so in the future, you can reinstate that model to then use the predict command against it to predict.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That model, so you have two functions here Oh, excuse me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh shoot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, I don't have zoom in on here one second i'm sorry, but we were watching the night so i'm getting used to this machine, so this is part of the problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm used to i'm never thought this classroom, and so my zoom and everything is in the classroom and I just not didn't realize that I don't have it here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, give me just two seconds.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, all right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are there any other, so you have a couple of functions and the pickle adult function which drives the object to the file and then you have a loader function which then reload that object back from afar, so when we DEMO this and then on your own so so in your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In your zip file and you go and download it you're going to have a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: program they're using that red wine quality data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That does a random forest extended gradient boosting model what's a couple of them and then one of them and then it's going to use the pickle functions of dumping, the load.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To save the model we built out so that we can recall it protect against it so i'm still wanting to the Code was that what was that what that looks like and then and then go on to the next technique so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: start with Colonel real quick so that everything's good and clean.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and clear so let's just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna run to this line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Loading.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My packages in my own.
MS Analytics Class 2021: head i'm like these panels and then i'm going to import the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Extended green boosting package package that's one thing we're looking at and also bring them from psychic learn some of the package so in this case of random for expression.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And some things for Claudia and whatnot like so do you have some famous because I guess.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the code down here below my house of pain, so I don't think so, I think I think I just got a habit and 14 does, but if I remember right I don't believe I have pain, this is in this file and might not be as well we'll see so many more people, so this is the package, so I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, save my file, so I had shipped, so this is a cool thing about the the enabling the selection now I hit shift enter it runs through and runs my my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My my line over a year out the window, so I just did data set and use non Pio said low tax and then I just loaded this the csv file as the women by actually semi colons and and the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the folder there and so skip rose one yourselves for headers and for the non Pio raise you don't really have column headers like the pain, the data frames.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, a lot of that we can come over here click the little button right here i'm gonna just minimize this thing, so the gamble real estate and if you notice over here and my data set actually for some reason, it did not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me refresh again I apologize for slavery, my click that and didn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: didn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Clear out when things, let me just repeat that again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So much shiny back down to the data set apart.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's still around here and now, I see my goodness, if I click the little view thing the data viewer you have your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your data man's going slow tonight we're going to see right here's the data column zero through 10 these are our values, so if we look at the file itself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In your folder.
MS Analytics Class 2021: icon right here, real quick look in this case let's look at the red wine quality was going to open up a notepad plus plus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know that escape rose one i'm skipping the header long pie, they can't have that there's those concept of that airplane.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when you see the Rose one through 10 or zero through 10 are all the different measures of the line, whereas the last one for quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know 110 10 I think it's one through 10 being one being the worst quality 10 being the best and you go out did you guys ever played the safe side or not I don't know if you guys did I think we did when I was in school here, Dr Jones but, so this is better.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yes, again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay cool cool that's probably why painted on picks up in the summer so let's split my independent variables mid dependent variables right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So in this case, my independent variables i'm going to split them, and if you notice, they were flow types, I had.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I had a decimal so those you know programming and see flow you think that number, with a decimal right so like 2.42 0.3.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you see it, because you haven't had a visual remember this or not, but it's our whole numbers 123 yes, Sir, what is one of the columns for the credit X it's it's an integer while the rest are flow builders make them all.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay gotcha yeah so this case i'm I goes 03 11, if you remember Python it's not a given the 11th column because pythons non exclusive the Sunday inclusive, so that I could get the last call, so we split the axes up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to split the wise.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And now I felt like you know I have those frames and you can see right here here's the why it doesn't have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anything it's just going to be my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's a bachelor's your qualities right, and then the answers are going to be attending columns of your of your I guess it's technically a weapon columns to zero through 10 00 for 1011 calls of your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: dependent variable sets so i'm taking a little bit of time explaining this because, in case you haven't looked at your assignment basically all of us take take this file that you can apply now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And just bigger dataset put it in there split X and y and then you know run your model and same typical that's all i'm having to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's really simple like the idea here is not to be a Python programming class as much as it is a teacher have models.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And how will be able to use them against them for prediction because we build we're gonna build on this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In the next section was in the coming weeks, where I show you how to take this model and build it into a flask APP, which is the rest service run through a docker container in the web, so that you can then send permissions to that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Service running in a docker container in flagstaff for the rest API don't worry if you don't know what that is i'm explaining.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What each of those sections was a call with some data and say hey send me back the prediction based upon this data and and get it back and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is a building stuff and so basically your homework and have you bring your own data, and so, if you say i'm not so comfortable with non pies.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can come back over to this section and look here, where I take, and I do read csv and bring us paint the data frame and then you can use these ilog functions to split by the by the location so like, in this case from splitting by by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: 01 and 10 like that, if I want to just use pandas and not use non Pio do this, which you can you can use pandas.
MS Analytics Class 2021: use this to bring it in and then split your X and y is using this island right location or if you're, just like the type a lot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, you can type out the name is by using the list, bringing them into the brackets right, so, if you like, four columns and you want to type the name, do you like to see them, you can, but if you have a file that has like 42 dependent variables and when.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He made the variables and one dependent variable you might not my type 43 columns right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so I tend to either put my prediction that the end or production beginning that way, I know I can split it from zero to this and that's my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Independent variables, and I can split the last column to get my dependent variable or you know put in the first, but to the Labor day out, so that makes it easier on me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm sorry i'm hearing yes he's wiser from last week we meet, we have a Mr gotcha guys starting to graduate and so we had to push this back to this week, which is okay because that's fine usually a little more time to go through it, though.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we go back to the pickle, so now we sweat on data X and y.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just put a seed and all have seen sizes, I say see the equal to a number, and all that does it say every time you run this it's going to run into the same way as far as the call of all how it all works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to kind of takes away the randomness of the of the algorithm that is using to predict by seeing the algorithm you're you're seeing at the same CW COM, so that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: randomly runs through the same data every time, so to speak, because that's what the seat guys if you ever see this equals this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's all that does is, if you provide a seed, so that when you run the model or results are always the same coming back because you're you're.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you really don't do that in real life, you do that when you're in front of the class trainings people, so that when you run it and the slides say that value value should be 4.2 you don't run it in front of them and knowledge values 4.3 because you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So see it, how much set my tech side 7030 I got a variable called test size point three, and then I will use the model selection, and so this is gonna This is just psychic learn i'm splitting my data in that strain and that's validation and why training validation.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this case, we're going to look at the gradient boosting classifier so we're gonna bring in this model, so this is creating the object to hold our great Lucy algorithm they were fit the model right, so we say take the extra training, so I can fit the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me minimize this so here, because all this is happening over here, Simon says i'll run these different lines, all this stuff is happening over here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And more in the morning it's just saying that in future versions it's going to do something this certain functions can be debated another one, so now we can say hey look let's make predictions for against the validation data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is where we built the model, right here this model actually be this is this is where we said hey is the variable it's going to be gradient boosting classifier we're going to fit the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And now i'm gonna say hey let's take the model, this is not this is simplified code, so that you're working with simplified code and this isn't like are you necessarily building train models right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, but this is just this case on splitting 7030 so that I can take the 70 and build them train train a model, and then I can use the 30% just to kind of predict the case to show your prediction work right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yummy as you go through your process builder models properly, but and then, once you have that proper model and you save it out, so this is just saying okay let's make some predictions against the the use of the validation data see how it works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, now we have our predictions over here, so if I call right here there's just going to show it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is taking that 30% that we kept our newsroom predictions that it came up with that's not important.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't worry much too much about that at this point we can evaluate the accuracy, so we can look at what the actual live is where they are what we split up into the Lord God, I can sort of predicted how after it was a model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we create this variable called accuracy for it's doing the accuracy score and you see 560 6%.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't care at this point, this is not this class it's not so much about teaching you how to balance all those who suffer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Suffering have Dr Jones is going to get more into that and his version technically elective Dr Jones.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's what he's going to best companies to get more into and and he did it in the summer, but these are extended more into into the like the photos are taken.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, if you want to create a data set with the predictions and the input, so that we can kind of see them, I hear you that command they're like is your application results.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then, if you look that just gives you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our kind of this is what the previous one, one is what the real value went to La you are, this is what I predicted have to go look and see which ones I put first the code again real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I have my acceleration variables, I have my wife, so the first column was the actual quality of the line, my second call was one interview like right with me any questions of main character on here's one thing about code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is i'm going to walk through this and for some of you might seem a little fast, if you haven't written a line of code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: which I want you to do is go home tonight by side with you tomorrow and tomorrow and weekend start running and playing this code and then we have office hours on Monday.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can come back to me, and you can say i'm completely lost packet loss, but you know you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What i'm gonna walk through line by line like doing like this, so that you understand what's going on, but you know there's a reason why I gave you all the commands to create an environment that you can easily run this and why I showed you how to use these tools everything right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now i'm going to take and just build another model using random forest using the same data so using random forests oppressor inside of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: psychic learn, so I created my variable model or have I create I fit you know my my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So somebody asked what's the function columns that through so the column stack says take these non Pio raise and stack them together and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm taking and stacking heads validation here they don't take him a column, with a lot of validation with this vertical stack stack of the column and i'm taking the data set, that is, the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: prediction every predicted, against which was just one column and i'm stalking out on the end would that come in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So doing the same thing that we just get out here, but instead of using gradient boosting doing random forest suppressor so I fit the model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Make the predictions How did we do you know accuracy exact same thing, except for creating boosting i'm now using.
MS Analytics Class 2021: rank for 67% versus 65 random forest a lot better and I hadn't really good results of renewal for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My my life just apply random forest or I mean are really, really good and it's amazing on some of the lot of products, I went through not done thing I don't do a lot of tensorflow i've done song and it's amazing how.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How good random forest car.
MS Analytics Class 2021: same thing, especially golden thing, so this is what we're talking about now so we built the great mystery model bit random forest model of accuracy, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Mind you, this is not like 100% true statistical methodology and we're practicing that's not the point, the point is is let's say now, we built this random Horace model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's purely want to say that, so that we can use it later predict against it, so we have to do is is, we need to write this model to a file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we're going to write this model to this file called one quality that's right people already got that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's, this is just the option web that just says write a binary file web means when you when you do this open command it's saying hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: open your file with right permissions that it's a binary file that's what this web said open command it's open function, excuse me that's what it comes from this important right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This open command says hey I want to follow my file system with right by adding permissions mean I can write to the spot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And there's three commissions like say hey read this read the file so it's a it's a security methods that in your code, if you don't really need to read a file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can open up the three dimensions and I have to worry about accidentally deleted a bottle this case, I know, like my model out to this file, so I open it up and write permissions I use that pickle command and I use the document and said hey don't this model object on model aren't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As this random forest models are pretty on as a random forest presser I fit a model to it once I have a good model we're going to save you I just run this command and it dumps that file out to my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: director here, and if I open up a notepad.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It looks like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a binary fun right it's not attach files by default easier some some things you can make out in there right, but what it does is has all the information it needs in there, to use the audit So when I run this command here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I run the pickle load come in here and I put it into a new variable so it's very new variable loaded loaded model or if I take that same call I just wrote out and I load it in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This.
MS Analytics Class 2021: object here called wounded model rf if I look at it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can see right here, where the type is a random forest suppressor same as my model aura or just it basically this model rf result of all of the exact same thing, but I loaded from afar now i'm going to show you something just Australia that we're not playing I think i'm gonna.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm just going to clear everything out here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then i'm going to come in here just import my I think get your handle I saw that and give me one second you're back to reload on my line real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And just show you that we know its own trucks here right I watched a lot of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like penn and Teller on YouTube has a has a lot of things where people sort of magic tricks to kind of fool than others I couldn't tell her followers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or something it was all the guy behind the screen so i'm just importing my libraries and i'm gonna come down back down here, where we were and i'm just going to say hey load that follow up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can see where I loaded that model up and then the last thing we do is say hey said.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Values him so Sarah just sending a list of values and so basically like one row of data so it's just like if you just pull one, and I think all I didn't get these guys I just went to the text file and grab.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The lemon columns that make up that value, and I say okay let's What if I send any files to this will tell you one quality here is 5.2.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, when you're writing code your journey dumping something to a pickle file and then you're really living in back in like you're testing code novice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, typically vicious just for DEMO purpose to show you hey this is how you want it to a file and then this is how you move it back up from that file, so that I can run this for gate function against.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Russia yeah so so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you open like a new Python file and then he just like low your libraries load your work of load pickle file you don't need to bring all of the variables that you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: know what I just did a really good question was is, if you notice over here are variables, you see, you see afternoon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That came along the modules yet all if you notice I cleared out on a limb here, and I can stop and I restarted my term by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The window yeah so I restarted my curls by the girdle i'm very sorry that all my variables went away.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, all I needed to do was I needed to import I didn't mean all these per se, but I needed I need this random forest suppressor because when I load in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I load in the people file that has my saved random forests model it and has to know it has to have the functions and stuff available to it to do that absolutely critical because I needed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Other people, so you have the little the libraries and, but if you notice I didn't want any of this stuff I don't have any this anymore so so the variables that you create it on that file up those are not need to be director.
MS Analytics Class 2021: variables anymore right Okay, because all you're going to say all use this model, so I can predict the cancer, so we we go into week I don't know if it's three or four.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or whatever we're building a we're gonna build a flask APP which is just a plastic packaging Python that allows us to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: package our Python coding as a rest service in a web site so like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For those who don't know the rest services and Amazon, and you do a search that say hey I want to search for a new computer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know it's called an arrest service that says arrest search service at Amazon built the Center searching for computer and it knows how to go to all that code and send you back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The search that restaurants we're going to build a rest service that has this model file save it and it's going to know how to take and accept a json pocket in my web call of data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: call on wall take my model have already built predict the values I said to it and give me back and say hey you're there, so those of you that are taking Dr jones's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Class right now you're doing the visual the big stuff with teaching to enter your by your own beauty that I didn't know that rest service with values.
MS Analytics Class 2021: call that rest service to give me back what my value is for my conviction for one quality and today and give you back that value.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're going to build on this right, so this is critical, so this is how we don't and write a file using cycle, so you build the model you dumped it out, and I only brought it back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you minimize that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a link to more information okay so that's the original way now we have Java line and it's just a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a more it's the next generation of pickle it's faster it's more robust i'm reading from the slides.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's example i'd say anyone, I mean, why are you gonna live over pickle is the next generation of it it's faster it's more powerful in sports parallel processing and whatnot and if you notice it's got a job, like that dumb dumb blonde load pickle pickle.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pickle not load right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If we go back into our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: will appear here i'm going to restart my terminal that's clicking the little green.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Colonel just I mean you don't have to do this, but I like to do it, because if i'm going to go down and fall.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I want to clean up, but you also can have it so that it runs it into a new interactive window, I guess, for me, I just like to have the one window.
MS Analytics Class 2021: open and so by knowing the new fondue that but it's your preference so i'm just going to click the X here like there's all this stuff up here everything's clean and gone and go already so let's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, remember, not to say design and stuff in there and then talking to you all, and then, when I go to go back to open up the show you stuff i've actually put stuff in my file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is the job but i'm not going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Talk through playing around it, because the only difference between last fall as far as associate import Pickles I say important john law right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right here, and I see that I run with me, this is the only thing that's different right now I in fact, let me show you something cool i'll show you some notepad plus plus so under.
MS Analytics Class 2021: restart.
see a start tonight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So under notepad plus plus I mean minimize this your plugins.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if I go to plug in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I go to search and I say compared.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I select this little compare tool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I say installed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That says hey this is going to quit no can remotely, and I say, of course, because I want this compare to so now i'm gonna go and i'm going to open up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this folder, and this is the folder that he grabbed my zip file and you unloaded this stuff here on let's say it's great job line and grab the pickle, and I say open.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and say what's the difference in the zoo files.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, if I go to plugins now and not have this compare and I can say hey compare and assuming it's going to appear the file that I have selected to the next closest to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what's different word pickle pickle job line pickle jar blah right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: brilliant an extra space in this fall I don't have extra space in that file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: itself will be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our ios users for comparing, but this is built into notepad plus Plus, this is what we call a Louisiana lasagna a little extra stuff that I didn't plan on teaching tonight, but I was like hey, this is a cool way to do it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Instead of me just tell you what's different I can show you compare tool and notepad plus plus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm not going to run all this, as you can see it's exactly the same, the only difference is instead of using pickle i'm using job Bob and reason I am is because john blindness, the next version of people use it will work.
Clay Coleman: Is is is.
Clay Coleman: more secure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: than Pickles it's a binary file so that follows is a scourge, you made that fall under pickle or job like I don't know I haven't got a lot of research from Tom lives or some kind of like.
Clay Coleman: doulton encryption security things you can add.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To it or not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know it's a binary fall, so you know it's just curious how it says it's as secure as where you like that fall right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, but I can do, I have looked amazing how sometimes we may have a little research and see if.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If there's something i'm into the functionality of pickle pickle might happen as well, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i've never had a research and if there's some kind of like functionality, where you have to where you can encrypt that file and make it so that you have to provide some kind of decryption key or something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To do that, but I haven't ever seen going to be that I just think people like the files out we use them and usually they're behind firewalls on your servers or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or in the cloud and your own machines are secure right so it's just like your excel file House you know are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: falling down there on your machine or on the machine working on it's a pure it's hard coded compliments mass it says secure i'll put the patient on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The right otherwise it's all just sort of like this and i'm still being coding compliant with can talk on this whole that like this is a secure as how you secure that far yeah job is faster that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is that's the whole point it's just the next version so that's kind of what's next versus the next package, we were some people early on hold and pick one or they're going to jump on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I know pat one on one with compared to the industry about new paths.
MS Analytics Class 2021: function is it, by the way this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And let's say I wanted to add a call into an.
MS Analytics Class 2021: stuff after so like say I had like this and I oh man I forgot to put the little toby here shift on you hold the shift and the alt key down and you use the arrows up and down and left and right and it gives you column selection.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, if I get that is on the line is blinking, so I do this, a lot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is laurie so pat plus plus over notepad to compare feature column selection and there's just a ton of things in coding code files under.
MS Analytics Class 2021: edit you can you know all these large operation convert case and all that, but this is not a notepad plus plus class, but I there's a reason why I had to install the tool because it's really it's a really big tech Center so easy to compare and things like that so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so that's the difference between the typical job like you say goodbye or spiritual don't load same thing and job likes the newest version coolest kid on the block right.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so tensorflow Paris, so you know that's the hot, yes, the the the new hotness says the last three four years every wants to build tensorflow or pi torch.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't have a DEMO and pie charts and how how those files say now, but tensorflow is the Google, you know deep learning packaged and build a neural nets and all kinds of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Things for that those type of things and so you're not using Java or pickle for those are using what's called this html5 format and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To do that, and that's how it used to restore we use models and it saves all the weights and parameters so i'll DEMO that there's a little note here and some more information i'll DEMO that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that you have an example of that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I think it's all right, so if you're going to end the end we have the amen.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me minimize this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: figure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: out same way.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which tutorials built off of these tutorials or you're.
MS Analytics Class 2021: just waiting for a second for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know what I think I clicked too fast and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It was not happy, I forgot to do the data set so me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Saving done before and I got an all purpose cleaner saying right this way, it is the point of this is not so much.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How about the model as how do I save and reuse model right, and so I use the same the same data sets and all that and just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're a little bit of a pencil flow sequential to kind of oral to categorical This is also do what's called what happened coney so what one hot encoding does is, if you remember an ally variables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just the column, it has five, six or eight all the different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: qualities of her line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know one to 10 that's that's why right, so one hot encoding does is it it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Periods our own pivots I forget which one is which, so I mean one column with one value in there will end up with however many different versions hurry different values and having a column so let's say there was 10 one through 10.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we have 10 columns one column name the column names, with the one or zero whether it's it's one and i'll show you what I do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll show you what it looks like we use your to see it when I actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Use the command parents second they're just bringing some stuff from tensorflow Kara slayer so that we can have our different lane or something walk through that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm not going to go into tensorflow sorry that's Dr jones's class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's like you know, a whole class itself, so it longer, but this is the main point is at the bottom so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: show you how to save it out and redo it so i'm just this is my seat i'm doing an empire MC setting to this, so I can pass it in here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, then, are you a cable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Network, these are all the layers and layers and layers So if you remember, if you're helping somebody either some little that's the summer right they show you a little bit of neural nets in the summer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right and you have the multiple layers where you bring the data set in, and you have multiple layers where you know you have an activation layers and when these activation function and the data goes back and forth newsletters that's what this is here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is, this is just we're going to go through and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and
MS Analytics Class 2021: Take ever into a capable iteration of this multiple times and then and create this this tensorflow model so we'll kick it off to the case of electrons and I think I I I tend to the box.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is this is how many the parks, is going to go through to get to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See the answer right so it's like hey run the model once and then 123 all your hundred 50 times and keep learning is ensure accuracy, right here are a young person I pursue they don't get about 92.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So as Ryan.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know others kind of walk through this is just where we're getting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some information, so you pull out means where I mean absolute error.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or we can evaluate the model and see how well it did here to align it to his discovery pick back up that's similar to the thing we didn't pitbull and dot blah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We train this model let's use the validation set that we held out to predict the gifts of to see how well it did you know evaluate how accurate that was against.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hold out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and get an art to score and then this is the part where i'm just talking through this while this one, this is the part where hey they built this model it's you know it's 90 something percent after the thing is what ends up being We liked it and want to protect against it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or you have a 90% right now, like that, how do we say this so that we can then go through slow this model up with all the same way, some parameters and all that and train and against the same thing we did with john line and people, but this is just you can you speak or job log with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A.
MS Analytics Class 2021: refund through so we get that that that Pfizer on right so stop we're almost done so, I want to continually doubling fatness take a break come back and we'll be agile i'll have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A facial gone and I will probably take it with me wherever I can put stickers on stuff but so, so this is where we save the model out so if you go to go back up here, if you remember, right here, we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We This is where we create the model variable right, and so this is where we say from train test and we split our data out right number splits.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you know, this is not like a 7030 split this is a strategy, the cables split so it's taking an x percentage of the variables and it's holding out so many of them and then run them all trained on an absolute hold outside and then trainees and trainees and it goes to zero right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What is finished here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're almost done read the part one or five or six so i'll just go back down here also joining us for times sake.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So once that model is done, we can save it out, then we can use the curious models loan model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then use the loan model functions, this is important to the bone model function that we need from us models to look at 855 back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you get a summary of that loaded model, then we can say hey send us on pyrite to predict against it and actually predicted for your screen and non Pio right with the values in it and then we're saying hey the the model predicts with these is giving a score.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to go back up where he left off zero here does that make sense any questions over going here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There any questions you see we're going on we're building a model and tensorflow we were just you know get this model right now it's at like eight 9% accuracy don't drop down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So how about Accenture employees for a month alive, but I mean I can build a model tensorflow but i'm not like my buddy paying whoo hoo like builds you know, five and six dimensional models and it seems crazy smart he has a PhD from another school and the state and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It says.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's an deep learning all out, but he spent like eight years.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Maybe like 2928 he graduated and you know because it's just it's he's like this super super deep learning expert, and this is what he does all day long it's not fun, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm more i'm more on the data engineering with data science, and so this is more around the data in here it's like hey don't break models, how do I actually use it so that's the spotlight feature use them to work in teams that are building these things, and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, did I actually run the slice I think I did that night.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I did it because what really be part 104 earlier.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I wonder if I actually hadn't highlighted, I actually want to shift enter twice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It won't hurt anything else deliberately for August.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just I think I just move my mouse cursor let me do this I can actually see better fine minimize that yes, Sir on 35136 127.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Almost done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to minimize this for a second but around the background and going the next slides and then we'll come back to that because that'll pay right very, very good resource right right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the next time, so when talking about a psychic learn and sky and pipelines, and these are really cool So these are kind of like think of the cycle, where pipelines like enterprise minor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Enterprise monitor or to us in the summer right having a brain fart.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is I don't want you to think of it from the gui interface, I want you to think of it as hey I have some data, and then I want to drop them off or john I want to do we want to scale my data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: standardize it and then i'm going to try to run this model and this model this model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And predict and get to pick the best model and then do all that that's what these pipelines are, and so what they do is as the psychic learn pipelines, a lie, you can build these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These models these pipelines, of how the transformation and all the model built into it all, yes, very open to it, and then it will save it out.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then reuse it so that way you spring in new data this model if you if you get a sailor wearing standardized data, so, if you remember.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm sure you learn this but, like you know where your body body and you subtract the meeting invite about standard deviation and things like that you do certain things like that the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mice of that back from dyslexic migraine sometimes things back reverse but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you do those types of transformation, so I think about the psychic learn pylons is when you bring in new data in all values if you haven't been psychic my pipeline that knows how to scale this data and it saved.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What those what those scales work backwards feeling like so you don't have to like remember what they were an internal we steal your data send it in, and you can have all these pipelines to do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, and why is it your job, why because users job, like the store and reuse the options it's like it like pipelines so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So our our we go back and see I think are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we finished the value out of it almost 1% night 96%.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll go back to the sky pipeline and second question finished the photo credit, you know for this right now i'm just going to highlight up until the safer so, then we can predict the guts and then everything up until the say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me say Oh, I see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It just pretty so So you see where it shows our accuracy ours, this is our training accuracy or forecast accuracy, the pretty close right so we're doing good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this tells me hey number 175 or press I came, you know, this is a pretty good model is probably not you know this, possibly, you know not in your fitting in one, and then I say this out, so I say this to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This file here we go look at the file right click on it open a notepad you'll see once again it's a we buy a phone, but you can see, it has this hdfs format tensorflow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All that Duncan binary files and 10 servers are not recommended because we accidentally type of what character is a delivery or false hope.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But so then we go and load up model back up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: load it back up and you hear.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you print a summary so, then you can see hey, this is the model we have right of sequential model is our later layer for the dense layer you know here's our shape at 32.
MS Analytics Class 2021: nodes and then there's a drop outs and other events, and so, and all the parameters so then created a set up so that we can can like replicant said right pretend we are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So great, and then we say hey what's our prediction and then our prediction is so this case, I think I sense.
Sure, which one of these is the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: extensively impress me to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: not sure what happened.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Welcome back to this occasion cover what is, why is sending out multiple values are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lazy sorry about that i'm not sure what did you hear that we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Forget which one is the what is it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll come back to this, let me lay out i'll figure out what's don't want something fast either coded right there's one line or i'm just forgetting how to interpret this part.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I apologize i'm not sure it's for trying to remember, but also for wrestling.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So welcome back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The same number there so getting some the re up right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't want to do, but you also sicker i'll debug it and then you know either your first part of this class let's take like one minute and say this is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very the slasher no problem, so I don't know if something's changed or if I accidentally when I say the following officeholder if I if I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Left that thing off or something, but I don't have any budget, I know that are in the Foster and all we're fine I didn't take this code, but I might I might have accidentally get something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On this and somewhere in here like it when i'll debug it home phone I don't waste time on it, but the thing to note is this this stuff solid as how you say this is how you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is how you predict against it obviously have something weird in this array here that's sitting in there that's given me this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But i'll figure it out and let you know what's going on there, so, but which is the point right the html5 that's the format, how we save it out how we loaded up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just wayne's something wrong here we'll do i'll debug and afterwards, so all right good any questions I don't know why am I praying my prediction is weird I will i'll figure out that at home, this weekend and and show you the first part of next week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That fair.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah just just see you know if you ever do demos on for everybody, and you lots of lots of demos live there's only one that has one little.
MS Analytics Class 2021: randomness I ran this last week over we're doing that, so I don't know if I accidentally made a slight change in the file accidentally clicking through so let's go back to slides real quick and then coming so psychic psychic SK LM pipeline, so I won't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go into the code i'll make it so in your folder here you have this sky and all pipeline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: minimize it so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Similar stuff right here so for this case i'm gonna learn, so this is all different data set.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is some iris data, so this, this is a, this is one of the things some data sets you see a lot with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know people teaching, how come right in Python for data models so this particular data set we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This iris data that we loaded and it's basically predicting what type of iris something is based upon the length and width and of the panel itself right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so I learned it in, and so this load Irish, this is just this data set just exist in Python and I think it's coming from sky right here here here it's just a day of setbacks and sky where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He also you're using them like that, and a couple of times I haven't seen this point in the file and people at home, can you see it okay in the stream or any to remember this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the spring in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some sky and stuff, the main thing is this right here is the one thing we're going to this pipeline option.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So a lot of my data and we're in a structured pipeline right, so we have one for logistic regression, we have one for SEC decision tree classifier and so we're going to scale our data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then real principal component and our principal component analysis break it down and then we're going to then say hey let's put a logistic regression.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To try to predict what it is the SEC, and then do a decision tree and then we're saying hey what's what's our pipeline so let's construct their pipelines and so let's just has this functionality, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That makes sense that we're going there we have this this pipeline function or passing in this list that has these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: values in there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They construct these pipelines so it's going to happen is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: what's going to happen is is now really greatness dictionary of our pipeline zeros logistic regression was support vector machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To his decision tree So when I send us like enterprise Meyer, you know you bring the data, and you know when you scale it and then you say hey try some support vector machine try it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With sugar direction and try this isn't tree try this and then we evaluate and see which ones, murder and we say hey we're gonna pick that one, basically, is what we're doing right with me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now we're gonna say hey let's fix the pipe lines So you see, right here for pipe and pipelines, I think I accidentally, this is probably yourself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Honestly, because this word character and I bet I needed something in my in one like this accidentally and say did not realize it and that's fine seen here values but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll come back and show you so have this pipeline here's my list of pipelines that's that's just a list of objects, in this case.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, those are names are some quotes around those strings that's a winner's bracket of these three objects to the pipeline, so, if you look right here you're looking at pipe alarm, you see it's a tight on time right all right with me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: really got to the model selection criteria Christian return on in the sky here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So for now we're going to say hey let's fill pipelines.
MS Analytics Class 2021: accuracy.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry.
dictionary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of data set small so goes pretty quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here either.
MS Analytics Class 2021: There is our accuracy or eight nine said I said a 6.7% precision three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Four years is show you how to find the most accurate model for the test so best ACC co pilot when.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The best accuracy, with just so good great we're just looking to the scores, and then re the score So if you had like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hundreds of pipelines you didn't we don't want to go and print this out and kind of scroll up and see which one pipeline has the best pipeline right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You want to say hey look at you're looking at the numerator pipelines thing here, look at your best score and print out which one is the best one right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so then you've got logged out done and there's some compressed function on this one.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you know you can compress it so if you have like read your models, really, really large you can compress them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this case, for imprint that we say the additional progress and pipeline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So notice right here as best pipe variable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So reset that for here right, so this is what this did is out the best pilot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very well, right here so spreading the accuracy is looking at the accuracy sending that out, as it goes through, and iterate.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's updating which one is the best pipeline, with the volume of that score, so the scores higher, so I sent out and so now we say out which one's the best one based upon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This best type thing, so you have thousands of pipelines you read them all, and then you went through and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You identify the accuracies and we pray on here, but you don't want to scroll draw 1000 and figure that out, you can use this thing to say hey pick the best accuracy and save it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: into the specified variable so that then when we say down I say don't that's fine notice I didn't say not like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These other ones are I say which one was the best one right I didn't say about hightower piper's young.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I say that says, because what it does do this iterator is Simon which one had the best accuracy and the best my best one right but kind of like you to do with you know it applies minority brandon the module.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know don't don't think we don't do right now right yeah same thing load the best one back in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Progress against.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For that's what we're testing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This case I passed them multiple lines and in passing, I didn't pass that one line I passed them hey here's a bunch of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, right here along 62 for her.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This I said hey pass it over I split up access pass it in so integrated eyes on him and then Fred what was the prediction compared to what the actual values right and so here 1100.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On right and he goes be stack you know, or you know, this is really on fire right I believe right yeah.
like this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah that's a long time right, so you go back to like the pickle jar blah blah right into the stack and all the line you can use those 2 million the lightness all love to see how how it compares.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's go back to you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: got 35 minutes alright cool we should be good, the I O stuff doesn't take that long.
MS Analytics Class 2021: for not going to like break down the struggles and have saying okay like that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Fine, finally i'm just going to mention this one, and there is a sample out before this on it it's the open neural network exchange, and so this is an open format they.
MS Analytics Class 2021: are building to represent machine models and the idea around here first job logging pickle and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Things like that these are specific to Python this open neural network exchange onyx it's a common format that multiple products and vendors and people can use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To you can build your model save it out into this onyx format and then this onyx format can be run and other tools and support it, even if it's not written in Python so my example I have here is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Microsoft has a product called azure sequel engines basically azure sequel database to pull as your sort of full sequel databases of having every function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it's a core argument in a relational database sequel server they can roam around based processors, you can also went on when 10 processors to you, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I have a raspberry pi that sits next to my router at my house and that raspberry pi bonds ubuntu Linux and, on top of it runs as your sequel database so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's a fully functional sequel database, so I could actually open up sql server management studio connected sequel database tables tables.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so you take it on the edge, I can take this as an sql edge right and in a device i'll probably a library card.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is when we're doing stuff like this in my office or even as simple as writing to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But he's azure sequel edge database can read on as far as introductions and stuff again so you're trying this model for an iot type system.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To do prediction on the edge the edge like think of like oil and gas uh well on the field, you know you know telecom your your tower, for your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cellular talent for your thing that's the answer I just you know not your corporate office data Center right that's the edge edge your Facebook your end users hall and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're they're either phones together phones they're all and right that's how you do analytics, as you can take the weekend or after hanging billions of rows of data at my company, we can pull that in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In instantaneous real time and do the predictions and real time we will start doing them on the edge.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this for mastering comics are alive and build your ball sales from onyx file and for this example i'm showing you can take a device like azure sequel so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They can read that onyx format and so as a data streaming in is that sequel database, they can actually go and predict functions against that, and you can help.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can have things built in, and say hey if it's above the threshold or something when you do these predictions raise the flag for change the setting that you automatically change different things that happened on say your stuff I feel.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and then give them your uncovered that you're going to find them and then the links, these are just these are the links that are out there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm take five minutes, just because I only have 30 minutes to go over to agile and you can take the full 30 minutes and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We won't go to these there's no assignment do for agile there's no we're not gonna break down teams, I just want to introduce you to what what agile agile can speak in this man i'm gonna put that that facial bone afterwards will be easier for you on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I was going to teach you what the agile framework methodology somebody framework goggles on a framework, I should have done nothing wrong with the agile, the agile manifesto is what they call it a psychological as much as it is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, a way of doing good thanks take five minutes it's 30 after so just come back at 835 or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or maybe keep going, this is picked up some ID five minutes i've been talking for you know i've been talking for about one hour now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or should they want to break your your wi fi wi fi on a phone person I like to hold the space masculine sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't know how this works.
MS Analytics Class 2021: goes.
Karen Fireman: And then.
Karen Fireman: The.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Center for pilot yeah just click you know smaller installer wants to reload visual studio code, so that enables that extension.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's all for my here's my thing I saw.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I saw an extension I typically open up visual studio code install the extension.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, once it says install just for just for the safe and make sure it all works right that's good I just closed visual studio code open it just to be safe, because earlier like I saw some of this vm runs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then reloaded but then nothing worked afterwards so i've actually close visual studio and it worked fine so like the reload didn't quite go as planned, but yeah please use finances good.
Karen Fireman: Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just gives you some.
Karen Fireman: Really cool.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, so let's go, we got five minutes i'm gonna take a whole lot of time on this is just going to be a brief introduction to what agile scrum is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Much the time so so what's what's so what's going on the past we've developed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Software we've done things with all we have what's called this waterfall model product right So if you look down into this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: screen is still shared right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so.
Wilson Pineda: If you look at this waterfall approach I realize.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You like to gather all the requirements of everything you want to do so, like if you're gonna build that the first sequel server database, you know your own apartments.
MS Analytics Class 2021: tables and columns and rows and all these functionalities a lot of people want to coding.
MS Analytics Class 2021: coding language okay so we're happy to sequel as a coding language Okay, what if people wanted we'd have a gui tools against.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The product and have a duty tool to use sequel server case around her for a newbie tool and she started to find these requirements.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the design and then he implemented, and then you go to fix it and then you get to the deadline and you're a half, two years later he released sequel server one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But no one has really touched the code or use the code from the business until a year and a half's over this this whole waterfall approach trying.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's like for an aside, we got the requirements reside or go over to a minute and fix it and get the deadline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're half later, we have the business and they said here's your tool or sequel server one that i'm looking at I go well where's the strings anytime.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, we don't put that in the requirements Doc we forgot that okay let's do the string okay let's start and that'll be version two dot right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so they're looking for the first one to go fix that straight type you on and then we're going to add in you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These new security features or add in parallel, processing and you know partitioning, and these are all database talks about the va by 30 years of experience as well, I think that did you see the idea right so version two opens up three years later, and they okay your strings now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And at the beginning, you know so that's this whole waterfall approach right so it's it's hard to go back to previous phases.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sometimes you get roadblocks on forward, because you have all these departments, and if you can't meet this one thing to get this one part out yet awake that's done so, you get that things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's someone problems wonderful now I don't think i've seen waterfalls back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In certain projects or the waterfall model makes sense, are there, certain things that you do, are you going to play the piano and you're into it, but as far as software development pretty much most people in the in the industry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Mountain the industry like oil and gas, gas or power or whatever industry you're working in the industry has been in the industry of building software.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and building code and things like that was people are adopting agile methodology, so instead of paying hagar and build this project for building software or build this data model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this platform number company, instead of saying hey you can take a year to do that, so you can everything want we're gonna we're gonna go and get into this agile methodology and so so 70 folks that have lodge didn't have masking see the facial don't probably add anything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But they're not realizing developed this software developed manifesto, and if you really hate it all there's already knows how to still get.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It, but this is like the list of people that first met to talk about this agile manifesto so it's about 2020 years old.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I turned it off.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sorry, so waterfall is you know so those of you can hear me at home.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The waterfall approach is we play on everything you want to do that takes like a month to do or two months to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then start going and building requirements and build it out and you're half later release version one oh and that's the first time in years, get it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we do the next thing so that's that whole waterfall approach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The idea is you kind of the find out everything you want to do you build it all out and then at the end of that you had this release an array of the party and in here and the auto use it and somebody goes hey you miss this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the okay we'll put it in version two so you know your happens by and I get that right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The agile methodology is hey we can make the software development stuff faster and i'll give you the the the like one sentence version of agile, the idea is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We shorten what we build in real small segments, and we call spreads and we say hey at the end of the sprint you actually want to release things that actually have put stuff out that people can use.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we're going to find what those are and we're just going to do those things, and so anything we can do right I add anything to that spot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's what we're going to do and 72 weeks to two months, depending on how you do this, and so yeah go that spread and then your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: People your team of five to nine people, and then we work on that first sprint and then they're going to develop that and, at the end of the sprint here I go and have a little strength, you know party.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And look at what you did, and then there you go and find out the next sprint symbol look like, and so the idea is and these two and week and two months cycles are actually having things in the business users and put their hands on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's why, when your phone has an update, like every other day, it seems like or every want that's because they're using this agile development methodology.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To say hey instead of building these eight functions into it now i'll take six months to do let's build that first function and get it out in two to three weeks right that's just just kind of breaking down the idea in a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this format, so these guys that it's an iterative approach regular feedback and helps try to remove rollback roadblocks career paths and just runs on this high level.
MS Analytics Class 2021: kind of rely on the team to work like a team, you know, and so you know you're you're going to meet regularly and you're a have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All these times, where you meet after the sprints and have these feedbacks and things like that, and so kind of this visual at the bottom it's just kind of showing you hey each one of these columns represents.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A sprint or you know iteration where hey ship version one he knows a little small right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and have everything in one but we got something out there and yours get your hands on it, but the good thing about end users get a hand early.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They can let you know that you missed the stream data types, so if you were writing sample or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They might let you know right off the BAT hey here's your table go build one and they go we're spraying very smart car if your database person.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the oh we forgot that you know wasn't are spread so you go to version two and now all sudden that's in there, they don't have to wait till.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Unless a person to you know just kind of version stuff but you know your version two is a lot shorter than in the waterfall approach right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so make sense, so far that's like waterfalls hey we're playing out when we do over a longer period of time already knew everything and get it all works and at least it's all one big package at one time or as the agile approach is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to decline express and do them internally overs lot shorter timeframe, so we can get the business first this is going to be involved.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's going to be involved with it throughout the whole thing a lot of times you're looking at waterfall.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lot of times the business and only involved in that requirements and design part and then your software developers go off and do all these things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they come back in here later here you go this one or two wanted what guy they go Oh well, we forgot to tell you, but like five months ago, we really need this and then and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's not quite right, what you did there was we thought you why and they go well, no not really so you spent a year.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Written software before, and this happens, this is, these are real life type things right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, whereas with this agile methodology, because your spreadsheet shorter your business people are involved there's usually some type of business there's usually a business person or two.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On these teams and part of these sprint's, the idea is you're not gonna miss things like this and as new functionality or new requirements or changes happen you as you go through each sprint you going to do so, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So epics and stories so stories are user stories, so this is kind of like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These are like these are these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What we're going to do in Nice France.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm sorry it defines the hierarchy right yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well yeah it requires you know it's your it's like your stories are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What you're going to do in that short thing where's the epic is the larger picture and then the initiative is kinda like a collective of what an election haven't let slide to have like a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An example of the right and the themes kind of more larger so Kelly your stories are let's say we're going to build a website for nonprofit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our stories are be this is what we're actually doing and that's that spring.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to acquire that domain and build a welcome page we don't have a website yet for nonprofits or our stories whatever you do this one in two weeks will.
MS Analytics Class 2021: require domain and build a welcome page when I go and build a donation page for one time donations were update the donation page for reoccurring donations right So these are little stories.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Or, as like a waterfall approach and be like hey i'm going to build a website we're having a donation page is going to take one time donation for your current donation canceling donations printing out your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: end of the year report, for you know filing your taxes, your tax returns and thinking of getting you know credit like that, when you're the waterfall approach all that's going to build build build be put into that whole waterfall design and implementation you do all of it or, as in a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: agile approach your story is really broken up into these tasks and you're going sprints and so like the story acquiring domain and then your epics is like hey we're gonna build a website that can reach donor so that's kind of like the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's hard to see this little poodle visors because their initiative say wait what's our initial for trying to provide new ways to reach our goal So these are just definitions don't get too caught up in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then things like our theme and say we want more resources for our clients our clients, being a nonprofit we provide books to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: needy kids that can't afford books, so we want to get more books to those people that's what our theme is how do we do that, well, we don't have a website to get donors right now we go and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, have a one function of your we asked people donate well, we had a website.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is this is built off a real life example of the orphanage and I support in Kenya, but they didn't have a website.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then for like a few months I you know couldn't get Ahold of them how to give them the money and bring them a check and like you just need a website so that's actually where this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: came out of example came out so there's that kind of makes sense, you know what these are and don't get too caught up in the minutia.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is the agile manifesto, and once you hold your hand put your hand over your heart and site, the manifest that with these are the out of that that means ski lodge in February.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These are kind of what they came up with you know highest priority, and I for time sake i'm not going to read through all of them, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know the idea here is that kind of some of them already for he's like hey, our priority is to satisfy the customer.
MS Analytics Class 2021: through continuous delivery so sort of the amount of weight year and a half to get to their software, we have these continuous cycles where we're doing that right, and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, we welcome changing requirements we deal with a waterfall thing you know scope creep you know who embrace veered towards scope creep right when you work on projects.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like scope creep is like hey here's the requirements we designed, this is what we said we're going to do, and then a user comes in and says hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We need this and you go well that's scope creep and if you put that into my waterfall project, where I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: put out a Gantt chart that says well the first week we're going to do this, and the second week when I do this and the fourth the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Third, through the six we're going to do this and all sudden you give me this new requirement to update my Gantt chart and I could do all this and put that requirement there that's a push the project matt two months.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's a waterfall wordpress with agile when these requirements come into like hey the next sprint we have will add it to the to the to the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To the product backlog and see if it gets it into the sprint backlog and we'll talk about what those aren't second but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those can those the agile methodology is designed so that those changes can easily be brought in, I got really affecting the the development of software you deliver this offer more frequently.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Bottom business users involved throughout the whole project typically in a waterfall you'll see my beginning and we'll see you again soon and Max say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My current job of these are things we need to get done in sprint so let's just assign them out until they're all got someone that will talk about that a second.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, build projects, you know you know, I will say this i'm done a lot of sprint work it worked in agile scrum type teams.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you'll have people that don't want to work on them, but it's a high energy kind of environment in some way right, and so, and so the and you're supporting you're trusting your individual.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know this part right here working software is primary measure progress right, so the idea is, as you go through these iterations your software is you're getting more and more features added in your software quicker and faster, and you have working software sooner right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And just kind of hit the highlights of one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the last two bullet points here like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The best architects requirements designs emerged with self organizing team, so the team's themselves are organizing themselves and what they're going to do and how they're going to do that, and then the last thing is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have regular you know regular intervals you reflect on what you're doing and kind of kind of what's going right and what's not going right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so we'll talk about what those are so that's just kind of a little slide the manifesto individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Working software over comprehensive documentation, so if you notice, if you work in it, like me, and you get a new product from like say Microsoft on azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lot of times you out there, the products they are, and you go to documentation it's like one page with like 40 lines of text on you're like man.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How am I use this well that's because all these companies are using agile so right, it will get to the documentation, but we won't get the software in your hands why because you're going to tell me sooner the problems I have with it right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's why it's like hey you get the Wer were concerned about the software over comprehensive documentation usually in a waterfall approach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know documentation as part of that, so in that year and a half example I gave at the end of the year half have a comprehensive document over all that you build that year and a half and all the functionality so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then customer collaboration over contract negotiating hey we want the customer to be involved, this is kind of around consulting but, like you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you lot of consultants like hey we agree for X amount of dollars we're gonna put this feature this feature this feature, for, as you know, an agile development it's more like hey we're here we charge this much per hour we're working and then we go right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So responding to change over following a plan so and that goes back to the whole example of like hey we have a different requirement, we have a change to what we need, or a new thing we need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The agile method, the agile framework allows that to be accept that and easier say than a waterfall and we're all these pieces have to kind of work together to get to that anything.
MS Analytics Class 2021: razak Abdul you're breaking them up in the sprints and these user stories and then you're at you know iterating then overall.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So strong so agile is kind of like this manifesto this kind of thought process scrum is one of is an agile process right it's one of them there's, the main one that most people use, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the idea of you know, delivering something quicker with highest value of the shortcut to delivering really good stuff fast right and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you kind of do this over this, you know you kind of develop the software over like two to two weeks to a month type of timeline in the business set those priorities and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The teams kind of organize themselves and have this continual improvement process, and so it comes from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: rugby you know scrolling rugby so that picture is the bottom line so that's the people that develops from it's kind of like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know I guess they saw the people the right beyond doing this and working together as a team so so much of people use it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know the joint strike fighter they use agile, to develop it, you know, so you know it's it's more and more coming so real quickly, how many people actually are are already doing, like agile development so good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Anybody online.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just curious yeah I figure if you'd be because I saw from the comments, a couple people you know, making comments right so cool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I say something wrong i'm not a strong master agile expert and then it technical nerd right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I know agile from having to work in teams and do it right, so the so one of the main core concepts of this agile is this mvp that most valuable player minimal viable project product.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Project minimal viable product just love features to satisfy your users earlier right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and not the whole database, but I just need a table to store my data we deliver that first in the first sprint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A database that you can write a table and store it and might not even have the ability to multiple tables, am I can just do one table, because that's all you needed it first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then the next sprint we have the ability to do multiple tables and then that's right, we have the ability to code right, so you have this iterative process so that you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Do this and kind of what this timeline in stone is like you look at these 1234 as like a timeline of developing and on the top.
MS Analytics Class 2021: line with this car here is like hey we're gonna build a car and we're using what we call that waterfall approach well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We only have two tires and we have the tires connected to some axles again frame to frame on cars and do all that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But this is not the best example right you're not going to take a skateboard to make it to a car, but really what this example is hey I need a mode of transportation and get from city Center to downtown.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I needed as fast as you can well i'm going to build a car.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it take so long, starting from scratch.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But he's like hey dude if I gave you a state where would that work as well, and if you get there about an hour I probably state where grainy like a skateboard for those you know the Q SR I guess my skateboard from city Center downtown but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, but like how you just a boring week that work sure you know you think of the software tones it's the same type of thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm building the data model that predicts this and does all this, you might think of it in the terms of well if I took the middleman of data to build your data model that's you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This accurate that can only predict this one thing and eating and process and not the other.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Things but it's accurate and it works that'd be good oh that'd be cool right first yeah that'd be great do that what's the highest priority.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is it this predicting this function on this well are predicting this function on this file or that predicting this function on this pipeline.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which ones more priority do that one you do that real quick you get it out and do the next one, and then all sudden you know you have the pipe the well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The vowels all the different pieces built out which you've done internally, instead of trying to hit the whole thing from the well to the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: thing right i'm so sorry for you a lot of oil and gas examples, so I working right but does that make sense right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now you're gonna build some kind of transportation, I can go skate more way faster than I can build a full car and so, if that just gets what you're going to this is the idea of is minimal viable product.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So spreads i've said this word a few times it's this editor project ever process are we doing sprints typically two to four weeks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Usually two weeks, most of the spread of senior like two weeks, and then you have this constant duration it's always these two weeks, and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have in this design, I hear what you have is product backlog backlog is like this is what we're trying to build.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then the sprint backlog is, what are the individual components that in this sprint that we're going to try to do from this product backlog the product backlog might have something like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, build a website to accept donors and the sprint backlog and say Okay, we can't do everything, but what can we do in these first two weeks, well, we can get the domain.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can get the website with the front page coated and we could probably get the donation page that's might.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sit on one time payment so that's the revenues to four weeks so that what's gets put in your sprint backlog your product rap was like hey we're going to domain, a bright going to build a website going to kill the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Donation page you're going to build a page to send people you know report some how much they donated they were going to build a page like this orphanage case where they can communicate to their kids.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These are all the different products, want to build and the sprint is where we're an empowered you know and we're going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: prioritize those products that we're trying to do, and then in the spring.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're going to go and say okay from that product backlog, what are the most important things to do in this cycle to get a something out right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's not like say hey let's pick something that you've done but it's like at the end, like having thing we want to be able to have something to show, at the end of it right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's this iterative process and then hopefully like I said potentially a ship a product now once you get the idea.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That, after two weeks or have something just opinion the type product right, it might not be something that somebody has a website that they can use it, but it might be a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: mock up of Lisa what its gonna look like I could think you know when you're a break it down on those components that you can have something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Most important thing down the bottom no changes during sprint hi so you're the sprints and these agile methodologies.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You don't allow changes like design with that sprint backlog is and start making those changes, and when you get done with that sprint then unity's the changes, then you introduce you know what do you do in the next sprint make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have the strong framework, so you have some artifacts you get the product backlog a car, he said what that is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sprint backlog burn down charts So these are these are products artifacts that you have, and you have roles, you know, a product owner give a scrum master and you have a team.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you have ceremonies you have a sprint planning daily scrum meeting the press record review and a sprint retrospective so those of you that know a little bit about agile, when you most people when they think of agile they think of the daily strongly the stand up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Stand up meeting so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What is the product matt Hughes me, what is the product backlog, these are the requirements, the product owner sets those priorities, so the business user sets what those departments are right so usually the product owner.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the business person that is setting those proper requirements and those priorities as re prioritize and started each sprint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what does that means you go through sprint something might have been priority for high and the end of the sprint and might get dropped down to you know you can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just be because of certain things you know might you might hit some kind of philosopher, you could get something done, and so you have to re prioritize that and come back to it right and so that's the backlog and things like that so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, each item is represented with value and some people have different ways away score you know, some people do like Jaime meanwhile.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, like you're eating when you're defining this product backlog is like Is this a high low medium.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, things like that so i've seen like low high me one guy we had one strong master who is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: who came in and he literally took over a whole conversation, so this is my conference room around and it's so that he could put all the sticky notes on the light more than they're like man do not move stickies.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Do not write on stickies are like you can't just take.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The Community capricorn is like your conference room, but you know you'll see the willies those ads or whether I lot of people came out a lot of people are in the software.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And a lot more disease and sticky notes and then they were just drawing and process, you would draw this out and put sticky notes of the product backlog and the sprint backlog and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What they have going on, and so I was like I have software that can do all five minutes now and he's like I, like my sticky notes, I can move them i'm like I think my mouse and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the product backlogs that's like the requirements what we're building the sprint backlog, or what are the tasks that we're going to do in this short amount of time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this sprint right so, for example, Code, the login ui for the web page test the login grieves a web page.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So the products are like hey you know, we want to allow you just to log in the website when allow for reoccurring donations, we want to get a domain.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, probably doing the math party you want like like you know what your domains, going to be, because you know might not be available right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the product, so what spreads are like Okay, well, we want to Code, the gooey for the login and we test the log in you put some time around that so, and these are owned by the team, the team owns the sprint backlog the product backlog its own product right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, as you click and so so now, the other artifact is is burned out start, and so this is just tracking where you're where you are in the sprint right and so these are just you're just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is just an example graph on i'm pulling from atlassian they do jira which is one online project manage agile project software, and so this is just an example of a breakdown sort so you can kind of track where you are in that spread.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So product owner set of these terminology for the product owner defines those features it's usually a business person they're responsible for like the content, or at least they prioritize all those things, based upon the business needs right and they accept and reject results.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know own that product backlog right did you have a question, or is there no sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they have a scrum master and their job is basically to keep you from not knowing what you're not supposed to keep our eye on task.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know they represent management of the project right so they're representing the business people like people and they're just making sure this team is fully functional.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, doing what they're supposed to do, and they are their biggest job is to keep outside people from trying to influence the team.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they're trying to keep that business user that says hey I really want this in there, I want to work on it now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so they want to come to you and say hey I know you're working on xyz can you do this for me and that scrum master says nope.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's why their whole funny belt on the bottom they're like no that's not the spread.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know we'll get into product, the product backlog, so that we can get into the next friend, or you know getting them spread this appropriate right and so and and they kind of help facilitate all that, and so they kind of manage and run these meetings and things were happening.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so what's the team, the team is that's going to be your programmers and your and your you know functional people your testers on that that's the people doing the work and they're responsible for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, doing that you know self organizing and you don't change.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They don't you don't change TEAM members during this France right, you know when somebody leaves the company, but you know these aren't hard fast rules but that's you know that's that's a strong methodology right, and so they own the sprint backlog with team, so the project.
MS Analytics Class 2021: owner product owner.
MS Analytics Class 2021: owns the product owns the product backlog like this is what i'm going to see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The team owns and spread back on this is how we're going to make what you won't happen right so i'm the guy that's gonna write the code to do the login for the page.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm the guy that's going to write the database logic to store all the information right and so and and those become this sprint backlog of those tasks we're going to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then, you have sprint planning, so this is, these are the ceremonies evaluate what's in the product backlog we set what the goals are for the sprint.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We you know set how we're gonna do this we're going to create the tasks that we're going to do from those user stories and features estimate how long it's going to take and and that's all done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: alone is collaboration by the team and not done my alone scrum master but, but last line is like the point.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The point the important part there is it's not the strong master going and saying i'm a scrum master this is what you're going to work on and do know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The idea of this agile teams are the teams are setting hey I know I can do that and reason why you're kind of empowering those.
MS Analytics Class 2021: programmers to do that, no matter doesn't know if you know how to do that just yet, or you have the cycles to do that, to share what you have going on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because lot of times these teams aren't like 100% just dedicated to this they might be 50% on this one and 50% on another one right, and then the real world and so so that's why the team sets what those what those with the spread playing and what those tasks right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, when you're in these sprint's you have this dynamic daily scrum, this is what you know people who've done Angeles is like the first thing they.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Think of these daily daily scrum meetings and apologize or go to schema.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In their everyday of a spread or like 15 minutes you know the column stand up meetings, but you don't actually have to stand up comedy actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We were having to stand up, but every stated, but personally I don't want to stand up like the razor handling do I have to actually stand up and they're like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No, we really can't make you stand up, but but they call them the stand up meeting and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have a way, so I have a funny as a good video so everything i'm saying now that I look up is a link to 10 minute YouTube video that kind of have a cheap little cartoon this guy did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But I he's like hey and he's like what is Angela it's like if you ask the paper company they'll tell you it's post, it notes that you use to put on the board.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And he goes if he asked the shoe people you know the ask that, after what is the sheep people shoes and because you got to stand up in the stand up meeting and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you know, and the whole part of these scrum meetings are not to problem solve or not like hey I can't get this working that's not a strong meaning.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know everyone can come, but only the TEAM members, the scrum master in the product owner talk in the so you know outside people to come, they can come and see but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's only the people doing the work the scrum master management, the product owner owning it that's all.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's created the voice other useless unnecessary means and the whole point of these is answer three questions, what did you do yesterday.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What did you do today is there anything in your way or something your way scrum master that go try to get the other way not you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Know they're going to go and do what they need to do to help get that Blocker out of your way so that you can go and it's not a status mean it's not like you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sound like a status me like i'm on this point, this part of this, you know 50% done that was like yesterday, I wrote code to do this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Today i'm going to write code to finish up that code to do this and then well you know what's in your way well I started going The other thing, but I realized that on the database yet.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The right data to so and then the scrum masters and go task that for you and your keep writing code and stuff you can like make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then spread from you, so you have these two weeks spreads or a month spread so long to do at the end of that sprint you have a review, and this is like the DEMO kind of right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You think of the sprint review the DEMO like this is what we did in the in the spread and your invite anybody whole team will be there, you can find other people, you might have other people in the business that are the product owner, but they're.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know they're there they're invested in part of this thing you're building and they might come and say look this two weeks, because you got the Web domain look at front page done and we started.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The going back to my example of the web page for Tom probably started the code for that, but you know that's why I didn't make it so going back in the backlog i'm gonna make you probably the next right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's kinda like your DEMO what you did at the end, and then the other thing you have is the sprint retrospective, which is where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These like susie 60 minutes laser where the team gets there and just looks at it, and says hey what was what we do right, what do we do wrong, what can we change and what we start going stop doing continuing doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's agile scrum.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any questions on that I know I talked a lot when the whole idea that just trying to introduce these concepts, so that and kind of knows what this is so that when you leave.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This program and you get your great job or your data scientist or you're a developer, or whatever, whatever you're doing, are you different business like don't you think this is just a software development process like I said, the joint fighters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: People are actually introducing and even in my coming we're business themselves are introducing agile type framework for certain things they're doing right, so any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Give me like five minutes, we should be done right so that's strong scrum is a one one possible way to do agile, you also have the con bond.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is another way of doing agile software, you know the con bond the items are kind of represented on this board and so like you have kind of like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An actually Toyota in the 40s kind of developed this they base it off of how.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cells and grocery stores will stop soon as I do this come on you and Kelly is over to doing, but you got to do this is in progress, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is cousin has this code review here, but the idea is kind of have this board that you're continuously working through so it was real time communication full transparency.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it and it focuses on active work in progress and cycle times there's not like these sprints and things like that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And and and so just here's a little visual I grabbed off looks like where's the different strong and combine you know strong you have those regular fixed lens for us to combine is continuous.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know strongly have these end of the sprint you know your proof the product or as calm on your this continuous delivery teams discretion and so you know here's the roles that we know roles and combine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what you your metrics velocity versus cycle time you know, and so the other things i've changed, you know go back like I said when you have these sprint's your you don't know how changes resident con bond change happening.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then the only reason I bring this up is this a lot of times that you see kind of happening is you're here you're here what's called strong man.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, people are blaming the things they like your combat the things that like a strong and creating from banner, so you have these fits link sprints and roles and from, but you have this work in progress limits the cycle time from Convent not form combat that should be FRA.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On then already kind of showed this so you have that con bond board I kind of jumped through that just because it was good to shake that visual what to do, what's in progress what's what's done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then that's it so real quick that the jira you don't have to go and do anything with it there's no requirement for you go out there and do it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that's just one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I am going to show you what we have a week on agile devops which has an agile framework built into it, where i'm going to show you that i'm gonna share to do an agile devops, which is a little lot of companies are adopting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The jira is another one there's another real popular cloud based agile software development tool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's a link to their website, they have a go like what is agile so some of the slides just came right from that Latin lap at Lassen calm agile and then that follow up last week that you do best that video I showed, you have the cartoon where where.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where the if you are going to see that any questions, I know I kind of went quick I kind of did that on purpose, because the main point i'll tell you this when you get to the company that does agile.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know not everybody's like strict strict strict and this is how we do it right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: They all kind of how young you agile, but we do this part of the different video APP, but I wanted to understand like when you hear the word scrum master project product owner.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, and you hear things like you know you know stand ups or you know sprints and reviews and all that so it's it's if you're going to end up writing code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These days, or they'll probably end up somewhere where they're going these agile framework, so I want to introduce it to you, so you know what it is and how it works and things like that so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very good, you know going questions you know will have office hours on Monday My guess is you're gonna come to me on Monday to for the second half of your homework from for let's do in a couple in two weeks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Which is taking up the ml taking the the ml pipeline model and putting your own data to it and taking the things the job live or pick what works when I said, look at the slack.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I forget which one but you're just take to Peter and take two of my mouth and make them your own by putting your own data Center right and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then load it into.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The game, and I want to get you to put it on here so i'm thinking is it follow put it up on campus don't put out as it gets drunk get then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Next year, students, go to your github and download your code and turn into me and i'm gonna go I recognize this code you stole it from selling so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I mean yeah good is a repository where to put that up there, but please don't tell your homework into a public get repository turn it down.
MS Analytics Class 2021: put it on the campus you know I don't you know don't don't don't put it out there for the people next year to see so if that's a that's just kind of hopefully.
MS Analytics Class 2021: No one does that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So not that i'm I always do the same homework but you know, I think, I think, as you can see, I have is pretty it's a nice method, the way to teach you all this right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Through demos and give you the way you can use a real words and you'll find someone who has done this already or you take this as a template and make it grow that's kind of why I do it this way, so hopefully this all made sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and have a good night.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Thank you.
Matt McGuinness: Thank you, Sir.
Thank you very much.
Thank.